INSERT INTO create_blog (bid, email, name, text, topic, created_date) values 
(1, "jm65@gmail.com", "jm", "
EDITORS NOTE: This was originally published on 27 September 2003, but Time Goes By did not begin regular publishing until the following March. There is little point in this one archive listing for September 2003, so Ive stored it here. It is the first entry.
 I posted this on my fotolog today about turning 40:
I had hardly noticed 30; 40 was the one that horrified me. I spent my entire 39th year boring friends with unfunny jokes about my fear of this impending black day. Then I read the card from Jim that accompanied the 40 perfect tulips I found on my office desk that morning. The card said, See how lovely 40 can be?
And Yolima asked, How does 40 compare in retrospect?
Looking back, I got sucked in by cultural attitudes about hitting 40, and I should not have.
One of the things thats nice about getting older is that Ive experienced enough not to be afraid very often anymore. I like that; I like knowing how to handle pretty much anything that comes along. I also like knowing that there arent many decisions, beyond putting a gun to your head, that are irrevocable, and that saves a lot of dithering.
There are things too that I dont need to do anymore. I long ago proved to myself that nothing much happens past midnight except people get drunker and more boring, so I may as well go home early and get a good nights sleep.
Time was I believed I needed to listen to all the latest music. But popular music really was better from the 1930s through the 1960s, so I havent missed anything much worth hearing since I gave up music radio about 25 years ago. And when it is any good, it bubbles up enough that even I become aware of it.
A paradox of getting older is that as I have less time on earth, I dont feel so rushed. If there is something better to do today, I can clean house tomorrow; the dirt will wait for me. If I dont get to the movie when its in theaters, I can rent the DVD later.
In the US, the biggest problem with getting older is that the culture does everything possible to force us to deny aging, or at the very least to not inflict it on the young. Television and magazines are awash in commercials for wrinkle creams, sexual aids and arthritis treatments. Older people are portrayed in TV and movies as mostly dotty old fools and that irritates me. Age discrimination in the workplace is rampant, and you have not lived until a 25-year old vice president asks in an interview, And what are your life goals, dear? American culture is pretty much entirely designed for the under-40 crowd, but thats a rant for another time.
On my birthday each year, I set aside a little time alone to take stock, see where Ive been in the past year and where I think I might be going in the next. Always, I have learned new things, grown in some small ways, and am generally more comfortable in my skin than I was the year before.
Best of all, Ive lost my concern with what I look like. If there were any remnants of that, my fotolog has erased them. As I look back on the old photos to prepare them for the flog, I can remember disliking this photograph, thinking I looked ugly in that one. Now I rather like what I looked like then and only regret that I wasted so much time lamenting that I was not one of the great beauties of the world. I looked just fine  and I still do.
So, Yolima, although I didnt recognize it then, 40 was pretty good, and 62 is even better. 

", "40 Versus 62", '2004-03-16'),
(2, "elle90@gmail.com", "elle", "
 Bill Moyers, the host of the excellent PBS news magazine NOW with Bill Moyers, has confirmed his retirement, following the November election, from television. 
The man who, before turning to journalism, began his public life as deputy director of the Peace Corps in the Kennedy Administration and served as special assistant to President Lyndon B. Johnson from 1963-1967, recently turned 70.
All the septugenarians Ive interviewed through the years, he says, have taught me something. They lived long enough to turn their experience into wisdom, and to share it, which is the reason I wanted to talk to them in the first place; listening to the wisdom of the elders can be like tasting vintage wine.
Of the years yet to come, Moyers says:
Truth is, the foreign country ahead of me - the seventies - is not as exotic in my imagination as my long-ago twenties or thirties. Trying to remember those years is like taking down an old map from a musty attic to discover the world laid out there is gone forever. So you give a quick check in the rearview mirror and a light touch on the pedal; all thats left is the open road and youre grateful once again to be on it.
I am grateful to Moyers for many fine programs he presented over the years. Television will be severely impoverished without him, and I fervently hope he will share his accumulated wisdom with us while he travels that open road.
", "Bill Moyers to retire from broadcasting", '2004-03-17'),
(3, "rone.26@gmail.com", "ron e.", "
 That fine new banner you see up top is the work of my young friend Fred LaSenna. Ive worked with him over the past seven years at two different Websites and watched him grow into a brilliant designer. Besides being a world-class talent, he is a wonderful husband, a terrific father and an all-round good guy. How often do you find that all in one person.
I rely on him at work and I trust him completely on any question of design and taste, and I am honored that he agreed to do this banner and tweak the site for me. You can see more of Freddies work here.
Now that the site looks so grand and professional, I have no more excuse to let this blog lie here in wait as I have for several months.  

", "New web design", '2004-03-23'),
(4, "fman16@gmail.com", "fman", "
 On her birthday in 1974, in response to a reporter who mentioned how good she looked for her age, Gloria Steinem famously replied, This is what 40 looks like nowadays.  Ten years later, she repeated that assertion on her 50th birthday.
Today is Gloria Steinems 70th birthday and although she is only seven years older than I, she is the closest thing I can relate to as a role model for getting older. In an age when growing old gracefully is more likely to involve Botox and a surgeons knife than accepting natures course, Ms. Steinem stood firmly for nature, in an interview from five years ago when she turned 65:
as I age, I notice my body doing something, and I want to see what its doing, she said. I dont want to interfere with that. It knows something I dont. Its like being pregnant. You dont know how to age, except intellectually. But your body knows.
For those of you who may be too young to know, Ms. Steinem has been a feminist and political activist at least since 1972, when she co-founded Ms. magazine. In the decades since then, she has taught  just by being herself  uncounted thousands of us, more likely millions, what it means to be an independent woman. 
And now she is showing us what it means to be an older woman. In a nation that prefers its older folks invisible, Steinem is as outspoken as ever as you can see from this recent political interview. 
Happy Birthday, Gloria. I look forward to hearing you say, in 20 years, This is what 90 looks like nowadays.


", "Happy birthday Gloria", '2004-03-25'),
(5, "judykaypirtle65@gmail.com", "judy kay pirtle", "
 Linda Ellerbee quite rightly got her dander up over the removal of Bob Edwards as host of National Public Radios Morning Edition in this piece originally published in the Los Angeles Times on Friday. The implication, says Ellerbee, is that the NPR executives are looking for a younger audience and they believe only a younger host will deliver that. Says Ellerbee:
Our trouble is, weve allowed young to define old. Golda Meir was 71 when she became prime minister of Israel, Michaelangelo was 66 when he finished the Last Judgment, George Burns won his first Oscar at 80, Grandma Moses didnt start painting until she was in her 70s. But they didnt do any of those things in 21st century America, where reality is a television format, celebrity is a profession, and age is a moral failing. [Emphasis added]
Hear, hear!

", "Even NPR fails older folks", '2004-03-29'),
(6, "agedseventyplus35@gmail.com", "aged seventy plus", "
 It has been a truism since the beginning of the Internet that older people could not or would not adapt to it. I never believed that and now a new study from the Pew Internet and American Life Project reports that Americans over the age of 65 are the fastest-growing group to taking to the Web.
Katie Hafner, writing in The New York Times [registration and/or $ required] about the study, interviewed a group of older folks who have leapt into cyberspace to email friends and relatives, track down recipes and pursue their variety of hobbies. 
And, as noted in a recent post here, health is not, as most commentary would have you believe, the only online interest among old people. Not even the biggest. Among the top search topics in a survey by Internet through Generations on Line, travel, history, hobbies and genealogy ranked with older folks above disease and illness, which came in at number six.
So far, only 22 percent of over-65s are online, but that is up 47 percent since 2000. 

", "Increase in internet use by older folks", '2004-03-30'),
(7, "caroledonn87@gmail.com", "carole donn", "
 Raise your hand if you dont want to get old. I thought so - a hundred percent. Everybody wants to live a long time, but nobody wants to get old.
Even so, the closer the first of those 78 million U.S. baby boomers get to age 60 which will start happening in two years, the more frequently there are newspaper stories about the joys of getting older, though anti-aging articles still outnumber them by - oh, Id say a thousand to one.
That wont last much longer, but meanwhile, one recent pro-aging pieces comes out of Floridatoday.com. Britt Kennerly reports that local senior centers are having trouble recruiting young older folks  those in their 50s and 60s; in other words, boomers.
The president of one center, Jency Kelly, believes he knows the problem.
They dont want to come to usI think they dont want to accept the fact they theyre going to grow old.
Senior center member, Dick DeLauder, a retired executive who is 60, agrees.
Boomers dont want to be called seniors, he says. Theyre not aging, theyre maturing.
And another senior center official nails it:
We need to reinvigorate what old means and not be so fearful of it. I tell people, What does that look like, senior? Get over your big self. Youre getting old.
And there is nothing wrong with that. We have demonized aging in the U.S. when in reality it is just another era of life like childhood, teen years, adulthood and now old age. I would like the word old to become okay. I like being old. Im smarter than Ive ever been, not scared of much anymore, know what I like and dont like. Oddly, Im more curious than Ive ever been and more politically radical than when I was an anti-war protestor during the Vietnam War. 
And somehow they had me believing all my life that getting old is a bad thing. Not so. I think its terrific.

", "In denial over aging", '2004-03-31'),
(8, "paulkriewald28@gmail.com", "paul kriewald", "
 Ram Dass, in his excellent and most useful book on aging, Still Here, notes that we quiet down and move inward with age.
At 62, I have never felt more engaged with life. The stack of books I want time to read gets higher. The list of movies I want to see  new ones as well as repeats from the past - gets longer. And it has been years since I felt this strongly about the condition of U.S. politics with a commensurate need to be involved. And thats just for starters.
At the same time, I know what Ram Dass means. Ive let go, recently, of interests that consumed a lot of my time in the past. For example, Im bored now with fashion. I like to look as nice as the next woman, but trying to follow what is in this season or not strikes me now as a waste of time. I cant say I made a deliberate decision to stop paying attention; I just noticed one day a few years ago that I had done so. Perhaps the added pounds following menopause aided that adjustment in my attitude; its seems dumb to spend money on fashionable clothes that dont hang as well on a heavier body. 
Ram Dass includes in his book a pertinent quote from T.S. Eliot:
Getting older, you refuse to fritter away your time on nonsense. You drop your masks, your little vanities and false ambitions.
Im not entirely there yet; Ive got some little vanities left. But I know about not frittering away time. For many years, a favorite activity on rotten weather weekends was to stay home by the fire with a trashy mystery novel or two. Now Ive got that stack of books on history and politics and aging. And Id like to reread all of Dickens and Shakespeare before I die and there is a history of Cod that has been calling my name. Ive loved them dearly, but mysteries seem way too frivolous as time gets shorter for me.
Still, attention must be paid to Ram Dasss statement. I do not want to face my death one day still engaged with the world to the extent I am now. My great Aunt Edith lived to be 89, her mind sharp and sure right up until the end, but her interests waned.
All my life, Aunt Edith and I had engaged in heated discussions of politics by long distance telephone. She sent me her favorite cartoons. And we talked books and music and cooking on the telephone and by snailmail. Until her last couple of years.
Then, in Ram Dasss words, she did quiet down and move inward. Fewer and fewer cartoons arrived in the mail. She didnt watch as many news programs on television. She mostly stopped reading. She complained that shed seen all the old movies on television too many times. She had less and less to say and she showed less interested in what I said. I watched her gradually let go of the world and then, after a short illness, she died, three months short of her 90th birthday.
I believe the mind has its own wisdom, separate from personal instigation, and Aunt Ediths mind was showing her the way to whatever comes next. I believe that as the time to leave this life grows shorter, my mind will help me let go of earths attractions too. Or at least I hope so. Ill be really pissed off if I die still wanting to know how the presidential election will turn out  or whatever the issues most important to me then are. 

", "Quiet time is important time to older folks", '2004-04-02'),
(9, "marcialove70@gmail.com", "marcia love", "
 It seems Im not the only one who is disturbed about the firing of Bob Edwards from National Public Radios Morning Edition.
Boston Globe columnist Ellen Goodman reported yesterday that 17,000 listeners have telephoned and emailed NPR objecting to the decision. One woman even compared the shock of learning of Edwards departure to her diagnosis of possible cancer.
This can only give heart to those of us who are not ready to go quietly into our dotage. But Goodman also notes,
most employers have the same prejudices against older Americans that they had when older was youngerAt the same time we expect older Americans to keep working to save Social Security, or simply their own solvency.
Goodman also points out that Bob Edwards, at age 56, is considered too old by his employer to be a morning anchor, but John Edwards, at 50, is a fine presidential candidate.
Are you angry yet?


", "NPR firing draws protests", '2004-04-03'),
(10, "stanzin77@gmail.com", "stanzin", "
 According to Geoffrey Nunberg, writing in The New York Times [registration and/or $ required] a week ago, there is a new slang term for older folks  gerries which is, he says, short for geriatrics.
I think we need to nip this abomination right here in its bud. In his story, Mr. Nunberg does a nice historical tour of slang terms for old people, all of which have always been derogatory. There are the usual suspects which, he tells us, go back centuries:

Fogey
Codger
Oldster
Fuddy-duddy
Coot
Geezer

The 20th century added:

Dinosaur
Fossil
Blue-hair
Cotton-top
Trog

The circumlocutions he lists are particularly loathsome:

Mature age
70 years young
Golden-ager
Third-ager
and the ever-popular Senior citizen

But these apply primarily to old men or to old folks in the aggregate. Perhaps because he is a man and has not felt the sting, Nunberg skipped the slang terms for old women which usually reference the passing of sexual allure:

Hag
Crone
Witch
Old bag
Old bat
Battle axe

Even boomer, says Mr. Nunberg, has become derogatory to baby boomers themselves.
Since it is unlikely the community and media will take up labeling us by the three positive descriptors that come to mind - wise, sage, venerable  there appears to be only one word for people who are no longer young: old. It is simple and has the virtue of being relatively neutral even positive when applied to antiques, and it is precisely descriptive without being demeaning, derisive or contemptuous.
I suggest we adopt it quickly before gerry takes hold.

", "Gerry is the latest negative slang", '2004-04-05'),
(11, "lovethisblog23@gmail.com", "lovethisblog", "

 It is my birthday today. Number 63. No time on a workday morning to be making photographs, so I took this one last Sunday, 4 April  close enough to the real day. As a comparison, here is a shot of me on my 40th birthday. 
Each year since I turned 21 a larger rite of passage in 1962 than now because then, U.S. citizens could not vote or drink alcohol until that age I have set aside some private time on my birthday, an hour or so, to take a look at the past year, see where Ive been, what Ive done, whats changed and what hasnt, if I learned anything. And then to perhaps plan something for the coming year.
The big health news is that after many years of failure, I quit smoking cigarettes this year. It will be six months next Sunday and I have little fear of recidivism. I dont miss it and certainly do like having the money  US$8.00 per pack in New York City  back. I wish my breathing had improved in these six months, but I cannot see that it has.
I gained some weight since stopping smoking and I think the sixth-month anniversary is a nice, round number on which to begin taking off some of it. Its much harder to lose weight now than when I was younger, particularly when there is no time for exercise of any kind.
That is because I am still commuting four-plus hours a day to my job outside New York City. I try to leave with enough time two or three mornings a week to walk a mile or so toward Grand Central Station where I get my train, but the hour is so early that I dont motivate myself to do it as often as I should.
In the evenings, I am too tired to do little more than prepare a meal and get ready for my early bedtime so I can wake, relatively rested, at 4:30AM. Being away from home 13 hours a day leaves hardly any time for anything at all. This is the year, absolutely, that I must find a way to get my life back into the city. 
A bright spot this past year is my discovery of fotolog.com.  It has given me a way to be social at odd hours without leaving home. I can squeeze in visits to other fotologgers sites whenever I have a few moments and feel a connection with some other folks if not in person, at least somewhat personally.
There is more peace I need to make with getting older, most particularly, right now, with acceptance of the changes in my appearance. I dont dislike what I look like so much as I dislike that this culture so despises older people, particularly women. But that is a lot of what this Website is about and what I intend to confront in the coming year.

", "Birthday time again", '2004-04-07'),
(12, "elissarabellino28@gmail.com", "elissa rabellino", "
 For a long time, I was the youngest kid in my crowd. Growing up, I was uncomfortable with peers and because I was such a polite, little goody two-shoes in those days, grownups liked having me around  or, at least they didnt mind. Thats not to say I didnt have friends my age, but in general I felt better with people who were a few years older. This continued well into my adulthood.
Then one day in my early 40s, I looked around and saw that I was and had been for quite a while, the oldest kid in my crowd. It had escaped my attention through marriage, divorce, career and life that my friends and colleagues had gradually become mostly younger.
To be young is, in some ways, to be oblivious. We hardly notice the suppleness of our youthful bodies. After all, they have always been that way. Everywhere we look, our youth is reflected in the images of movies, television, magazine and advertisements. Older folks are hardly ever represented in the media so we hardly ever think about getting old.
But eventually the day of reckoning comes to each of us - no kidding around anymore - and the mirror confirms for sure that we are on the down side of the hill of life.
To grow old in the United States is to become invisible. We are encouraged to shut ourselves away in retirement villages and homes where the rest of the population  the younger folks  cannot see us. In the media, when we are portrayed at all, it is as dotty, irascible, dim or decrepit. Any wise old souls who sneak into our movies and television shows are usually aliens, never ordinary humans: Yoda, for example, Dumbledor and Gandalf. And did you notice too that none of those three are women? If the culture ignores aging men, it erases older women. We do not exist in Americas way of life.
As a result, we dont know how to grow old. The culture offers only the negative advice of creams and serums and surgery to help us appear younger, reinforcing the feeling Ive had recently that Ive done something wrong by getting older, something offensive that I need to apologize for.
I resent mightily that feeling being forced on me.
I dont feel obsolete and I reject the genrally accepted attitude that I and the rest of the 20 percent of U.S. citizens 55 and older are useless. That huge baby boomer population bulge is coming up right behind me and I dont believe they will sit still for being sidelined in their old age. It is time to realign Americas attitude toward old folks.
", "Becoming the oldest generation", '2004-04-10'),
(13, "disgusted-with-gop39@gmail.com", "disgusted-with-gop", "
 Last Friday, Marc Fisher of the Washington Post followed up on what some executives of National Public Radio and its affiliates are saying about the controversial firing of 25-year Morning Edition anchor, Bob Edwards. 
The official explanation was worded in such dense corporatese, Fisher writes, that both audiences and affiliate executives demanded clarification. One NPR insider who refused to be named, explained that Mr. Edwards didnt have the pace and the engagement with reporters in the field that we are looking for. In other words, hes too old to appeal to younger listeners.
The whole thing smacks of ageism, Alan Chartock, executive director of NPR affiliate WAMC in Albany, New York, wrote to his listeners. NPR is searching for a younger demographic, but there are a lot of us who do not think that we have ended our productive years.
It was postured as a move to help NPR respond to the changing needs of public radio listeners, Jim King, director of radio at WVXU in Cincinnati, wrote to his listeners. Since Morning Editions audience has more than doubled in the last decade and Ive heard not one member complain about Bobs on-air sound, I stand in utter amazement that this was the initial reason givenIn my mind, it makes absolutely no sense to take the man, the voice, the identity of NPRs most popular program and usher him out of the anchors chair.
The bottom line, according to Fisher, is that NPR executives want to emulate the Internet by creating a feeling of constant news updates throughout the morning.
Oh good, just what we need  a little more speed in our mornings.
Bob Edwards is scheduled to leave Morning Edition at the end of April. I am sad to lose a long-time favorite radio companion. I am furious to lose him to age discrimination. If you agree, let NPR know:
Email:            ombudsman@npr.org
Telephone:     202.513.2000
Previous TGB stories about Bob Edwards firing:
NPR firing draws protests
Even NPR fails older folks
", "Bob Edwards NPR firing part 3", '2004-04-12'),
(14, "fingerscrossed41@gmail.com", "fingerscrossed", "
 I cant be sure of the date, though I know I was not much past age 40 and certainly no more than 43 when this happened. In Nashville to shoot an interview with Barbara Mandrell for The Barbara Walters Specials, I joined my colleagues that evening for a night of dancing at a club with a sensational local band. We had flights booked the next day to return home, but this was a free night to play. 
The music was so good, the beer flowing so freely and the company so much fun that we danced almost every tune and almost all night. I didnt get back to my hotel until 3AM, so I didnt get much sleep before the morning wake up call to meet a 10AM flight.
I swung my legs out of bed to stand up and whoa! I was stuck with my upper body at a 45 degree angle, hips screaming in protest. The more I tried to get vertical, the worse the pain got. Never had I been more grateful, I remember thinking as I slowly hobbled in my jackknifed position toward the bathroom, that there was no man in my bed to see this newly-developed decrepitude.
With the aid of a very hot shower, my body gradually returned to vertical, though I had to grit my teeth hard to endure the pain as I pulled myself out of my seat when the plane landed in New York.
Unimproved after a nights sleep in my own bed, I phoned my doctor who sent me to an orthopedist who made some x-rays and then sat me down for chat. After hearing of my six or seven hours of dancing for the first time in several years, he said to me: People your age cant do that anymore. 
Uh-huh. The only part I heard was people your age. I could see the humor in the painful result of a 40-plus woman behaving like a 20-something, but the fact is, I had no idea I shouldnt attempt that much activity at my age. It was the first time my body had failed me in a manner that could be attributed to the passing years.
The hip pain was temporary, and with a few exercises the doctor gave me it was no more than a week before I could go dancing again. But it left a frisson of apprehension  a small indication I was unwilling yet to examine closely but which ticked at the back of my mind - that I was no longer of the younger generation.


", "You know youre getting older when", '2004-04-13'),
(15, "bettybike92@gmail.com", "bettybike", "
 83-year old Hugh Downs celebrated his 60th wedding anniversary in March by renewing his wedding vows with his wife Ruth, and he regularly hits the lecture circuit, often on the topic of aging.
Downs was still co-anchor of the ABC-TV news magazine, 20/20, when I worked there. I was never lucky enough to produce a segment with him, but our paths crossed a couple of times and his presence in the offices gave a sense of calm dignity to an sometimes ill-tempered atmosphere brought on by fragile egos and looming deadlines. He was never less than a gentleman.
So it is no surprise to me that he has taken to the lecture circuit as an advocate for older folks, pressing the media to educate younger people about what aging is really like. At a recent appearance in Iowa City, Downs noted that American prejudice against older folks is so pervasive that we hard recognize it as prejudice anymore.
I want to see a time in our culture, said Downs, when someone points to me and says, There is an old man, and I know Ive been complimented. There is never anything wrong with getting old.
Hes right, but it is hard to know that when just about every media portrayal of older folks is as senile, silly and incapable, and when even our most respected radio network fires an anchor for being too old.
You can read more about Downs Iowa City speech in the Press-Citizen.

", "Hugh Downs: advocate for the aging", '2004-04-15'),
(16, "joee10@gmail.com", "joe e", "
 A couple of weeks ago, I was surprised to see on television a commercial for a menopause test. Although it seemed to work like home pregnancy tests, the commercial was vague about what it measures and the usefulness of the results. Yesterday I got around to seeing what I could find about it online.
Googling menopause test returns 2,390 results. A few clicks, however, reveal that many are duplicates, the same test being promoted under a variety of URLs such as hormonecheck. And that is what the test does  check for a hormone called follicle stimulating hormone, an elevated level of which may indicate menopause  or not. In fact, the FDA  US Food and Drug Administration says on its site, This test does not detect menopause
So I guess the idea is you spend US$20, or US$27, or US$39 the prices I found for various brands to find out, assuming you are in the general age range, that you might be in menopause or you might not be.
Since the baby boomers began hitting their menopause years about a decade ago, the topic has become widely popular. Google menopause and you get 2,780,000 results. An Amazon check returns 7,233 books. Undoubtedly the Lifetime and WE channels have produced deeply serious documentaries about a normal condition that has been promoted to disease status. Every month, most womens magazines carry another story on menopause, and the pharmas continue to push dubious, and very likely dangerous, hormone therapies on women during and following menopause.
All that adds up to a lot of billions of dollars being made on a normal bodily transition. And if that doesnt make you angry, it should, because the menopause industry is built, unnecessarily, on scaring the hell out of women.
The same menopause test Website linked above lists no fewer than  count them - 45 menopause symptoms, including missed periods amenorrhea. Hel-lo. I think that is one of the definitions of menopause and not anything to be concerned with. Others on the list could lead anyone to believe that women, following menopause, immediately become crazy old hags of the sort kids in the neighborhood point to and run screaming from:

Changes in body odor
Changes in mouth odor
Increase in facial hair
Feelings of dread, apprehension and doom
Bouts of rapid heart beat
Chronic fatigue syndrome
Disturbing memory lapses
Difficulty concentrating, disorientation, mental confusion
Dizziness, light-headedness, episodes of loss of balance
Electric shock or stabbing sensation under the skin

The truth is quite different and most symptoms for most women can easily be dealt with. Changes in odors? Well, by 40-plus weve all had a lot of practice at bathing regularly, so I am unclear why it matters if odors change.
I was shocked when, having missed a couple of menstrual periods, my doctor told me it was nothing serious, only the beginning of menopause. Menopause??? I was 43 years old. I had only the vaguest idea of what it was and had assumed that it was still many years in the future. But no.
Soon, hot flashes began and I still think it is astonishing  and kind of funny  what your body can do to you in an instant. One moment, you are perfectly normal, standing there in your nice, silk suit or dress; the next, you are as soaked through, as drenched as if you got caught in a thunderstorm without an umbrella.
Clearly, I had to forego silk and my mother had a terrific solution. She bought about ten sweatshirts they have to be the cheap, thin kind to fit under suit jackets and some lace. She dyed pieces of the lace the same ten colors as each of the sweatshirts and sewed the lace to the front of matching shirts.
I still looked dressy enough for work and the sweatshirts did what they are meant to do  soaked up the sweat without sticking to my body. Ingenious, Mom. Never would have thought of it myself.
As to dread and doom, fatigue, memory lapses, mental confusion and dizziness  I had no more than I was accustomed to all my life. The biggest problem I had, aside from hot flashes and night sweats that lasted only about six months out of ten years, was a decade of irregular menstrual periods which, come on now, folks, is only annoying. Hardly a big deal. 
But keep your eye on those doctors  they are such shills for the pharmas. I quit two gynecologists during menopause because they wouldnt stop pushing hormones on me. My skin would sag, a woman doctor told me. But everyone in my family dies of cancer, I countered. Those tests are inconclusive, she argued back. I prefer sagging skin to dead, I told her and moved on to another gynecologist.
Menopause is a normal, temporary condition. There are some unpleasant side effects, but dont let the menopause industry scare you into drug therapy by telling you will lose your womanliness. Do your homework and use your own good judgment. And certainly dont waste your money on tests that cannot tell you anything useful.
", "The menopause industry", '2004-04-19'),
(17, "aneema77@gmail.com", "aneema", "
 From an anonymous letter writer:
A strange old lady has moved into my homeShe is a clever old lady and manages to keep out of sight for the most part, but whenever I pass a mirror, I catch a glimpse of her
She must have a real sweet tooth, but shed better watch it because she is really packing on the pounds
She has taken the fun out of shopping for clothes. When I try something on, she stands I front of the dressing room mirror and monopolizes it. She looks totally ridiculous in some of those outfits, plus, she keeps me from seeing how great they look on me.
Ive got one of those old ladies living with me too, and I resent the amount of time it takes, each and every morning, to make peace with my appearance:

That extra chin or two, especially when I look down
The long-gone jaw line
Those two little jowls
Those baggy under-eyes
And wrinkly eyelids
That neck getting raggedier by the day
And a waist line now the width of my hips

Each day I tell myself that Im 63 - its all right to look like this, there is nothing wrong with me, and it is not a moral failure to get older. All that convincing myself makes me tired. And it makes me angry that I succumbed so long ago to brainwashing by a culture that has, for a lifetime, done everything possible to make me believe that old is bad and that the only possible recourse is to do dangerous things to myself to appear younger for as long as possible.
Yes, I might have postponed some of those signs of aging if I had accepted the hormones doctors wanted to give me, but I might also be dead of cancer by now. I could try botox and collagen or plastic surgery, but they are expensive and I have better things to do with my money. Plus, I am interested in watching how aging happens. I like what Gloria Steinem said in AARP magazine about rejecting plastic surgery:
as I age, I notice my body doing something, and I want to see what its doing, she said. I dont want to interfere with that. It knows something I dont. Its like being pregnant. You dont know how to age, except intellectually. But your body knows. 
In the interests of full disclosure, here is what I said seven months ago comparing age 40 to 62: 

Best of all, Ive lost my concern with what I look likeNow I rather like what I looked like then and only regret that I wasted so much time lamenting that I was not one of the great beauties of the world. I looked just fine  and I still do.
I lied. Or, to be kinder, I wrote what I wished I could feel about my present-day appearance and hoped I would achieve someday. It is good to be able to report that someday has just about arrived.
All those mornings of trying to make peace with that old lady in the mirror are gradually paying off. Now and again, these days, I can almost love those two little jowls. More frequently than in the past, I actually get in a more real way than previously, how little appearance matters in the grander scheme of things. And lately, Ive even caught myself thinking that youre the loser if you reject me for being old.
I still wish my face werent aging by getting pudgier, but I felt the same way about my round face 40 years ago so it is no longer reasonable to lament that they gave Katharine Hepburn my facial bones by mistake. 
Age is relative. The gerontology business even has names for stages of aging: young-old, old, and old-old. I suspect that by the time anyone reaches old-old, appearance is long forgotten as an issue in life. But Id rather not wait until then to get rid of an attitude that takes up too much space in my brain. Im working on it.
Meanwhile, dont you miss that anonymous letter I mentioned above. Its really funny.

", "Learning to love those little jowls", '2004-04-20'),
(18, "grahamforbes24@gmail.com", "graham forbes", "
 Heres a Q&A; with the author of a new book called My Time: Making the Most of the Rest of Your Life, about getting older. That title reminds me a bit too much of my mother who, when she retired at 65 said, Ive done it everyone elses way all my life and from now on Im going to do it my way. She became perfectly obnoxious for the rest of her life.
And, the author, Abigail Trafford, comes off as a bit too perky for my taste, but that doesnt mean the book isnt interesting or worthwhile.
---------------------------------------
The U.K. has a much more active protest movement against age discrimination in the workplace than the U.S. and Australia even has a whole month, April, devoted to older folks called Mature Aged Month. They making a greater effort than the U.S. so far is to address the age discrimination problems that persist, perversely, in the face of a graying population. 
Its a puzzle to me how prejudice persists over self-preservation. You would think age bigots would prefer that we older folks support ourselves rather than being supported by increased taxes they have to pay.
--------------------------------------
Heres a news story that raises my blood pressure. It reports on the increase in phishing attacks and cautions users about sharing personal information online. Nothing wrong with that except that the story is targeted specifically to older folks: Senior Citizens Must Be Cautious in Sharing Information on Web is the headline.
One more of the never-ending instances of the media slanting stories on the assumption that older folks lose every marble they had at about age 50. In fact, a recent survey by Symantec shows that people older than 65 are the least likely to be taken in by SPAM scams.
", "News round-up - 21 april 2004", '2004-04-21'),
(19, "bettine19@gmail.com", "bettine", "
 There are a couple of guys  Michael and Friedrich -  who call themselves 2 Blowhards. Although Ive not investigated their blog thoroughly yet, they seem to talk a lot about art.
But yesterday, Michael posted some notes about how his attitudes and responses toward art and ideas have changed as he has gotten older. 
Happy to admit, says Michael, that much of this change has to do with age. Happy to admit, in fact, that in this as in so much else Im a walking cliche.
Neither Michael nor Freidrich give their ages, though they admit to baby boomer status. Michaels post and the comments from readers following, are fascinating. Another taste:
These days, when I have an art-reaction, an art-thought, or an art-observation, I tend to feel relief. I feel like Ive found what I was looking for all along, like Im finally getting my head screwed on straight. Finally, after all those years of delusion, I can relax. Ive arrived, and it feels indisputably right. Yet is there any reason to think that my current settling-with-gratitude-into-the-truth feeling is any more accurate than was my youthful wow-kapow-look-at-me feeling? Or are both simply experiences of no significance, mere functions of being a certain age?
This is absolutely worth a read along with all the comments below the original story. Everyone there is male, so if youre a woman, it might be interesting to see if you agree or if, in addition to the differences we find between our youthful and older selves, there are differences in our response to aging between men and women.


", "Two blowhards talkin' about age", '2004-04-22'),
(20, "karolyn35@gmail.com", "karolyn", "
 There is a piece in The New York Times registration and/or $ required today about a bunch of overachieving women who are stumped about retirement. Says one:
What do you do all day? She asked friends who had left the working world. Then what do you do? She pressed unsatisfied by the first answer. What do you do on weekends? How do you even know its a weekend?
The women interviewed for the story, who range in age from 57 to 67, include:

a partner in a consulting firm
the former director of procurement for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey
a former editor of a major publishing house
the owner of a public relations company
a former chief administration officer at a design firm

These are accomplished women who rose to the top of their fields - undoubtedly smart, probably shrewd and certainly with enough money to maintain their lifestyles in retirement. And they are whining about what do to with their old age:
You know those hollow molds at do-it-yourself pottery studio? I look at them and think Thats the shape I used to be, and theres nothing left inside.
Its no fun watching the young Turks pass you by. The world is at their feet, as it once was for you, and thats very painful.
[Volunteering is] a painful way to start retirement. [It means doing menial work] for a 22-year-old boss who doesnt know you can do her job with one hand tied behind your back.
And one wonders how she will introduce herself when she stops working. These women, who dont even have the shame to recognize how stupidly self-induglent they are being in this interview, are an embarrassment.  
The choices when income is not an issue are uncountable: They could indulge themselves in activities they had no time for when they were running companies. Theyre smart  there must be many things they wish they knew and didnt have time to study while they were so busy climbing the corporate ladder. Maybe the grandkids would appreciate more frequent visits. There must be travel destinations theyve dreamed of. Gardening. Cooking. 
Or how about something really useful like lobbying for an end to age discrimination in the workplace which could benefit them and millions of others.
Instead, they are holding elitist meetings, exclusive to woman, where they can whine about their loss of position in the working world. The article is entitled Last Hurdle for Trailblazing Women: The Gold Watch. Would that they would get off their elitest pedestals and blaze some trails by actually doling something that makes a difference. There are no 
In case you disagree with me about these women and believe a weekly or monthly gabfest about the difficulties of losing your corporate title would be advantageous, here are several of the new organizations to help you out:
Project Continuum - but only if you are a alumnae of Barnard College
The Transition Network
Womansage


", "Stumped by retirement", '2004-04-22'),
(21, "gregm50@gmail.com", "greg m", "
 There has been a lot of newsprint chatter in the past week or so about older folks in the workplace. A lot of it is contradictory; here are some highlights:
A new book called The Coming Generational Storm is excerpted here. The gist, which most writers so far seem to agree with, is that the percentage of older folks will grow so large in relation to younger people in the not-too-distant future that we will have no recourse but to cut Social Security, Medicare and pretty much all entitlements.
One of the dissenters speaks up in a review on that book title link above. Scroll down to see what Dean Baker has to say.
-------------------------------------------
The Financial Times took on the related problem of employment in an aging population, mostly from a UK perspective, but the reporter notes that legal claims for age discrimination in the workplace have increased in the U.S. following the outlawing, in 1986, of mandatory retirement ages.
Ray Tallis, a professor of geriatric medicine at Manchester University says that standard retirement ages still in place in the U.K. are a purely social artifact. According to Professor Tallis, a 65-year old today has a younger outlook than a 65-year old in 1954. But he believes that extending working years past standard retirement age requires older folks to ruthlessly review their qualifications as they get older. That seems reasonable to me.
-------------------------------------------
CNNMoney reports that it wont be long until older folks on in huge demand in the workplace. When too many of us retire and the generations behind us are not large enough to fill the workforce, corporate America will beg us to come back to work.
And not a moment too soon now that Enron et al have stolen so many older peoples retirement savings.
They also enumerate some of the advantages older workers have over younger workers, and reveal how age discrimination continues even though older workers are needed in the marketplace.


", "News round-up - 2004 April 26", '2004-04-26'),
(22, "lindat.80@gmail.com", "linda t.", "
 One of the things about getting older is that you sometimes worry you cant keep up anymore, that your skills are slipping. Whenever you cant find your sunglasses or leave home to grocery shop without the list you carefully made, you wonder if your memory is going, if it might be incipient Alzheimers. You dont tell anyone, but you wonder.
At brunch on Sunday with my friends Caroline and Sophy, the topic of multitasking came up. Caroline said she is lately suspecting that multitasking has contributed to a growing inability to concentrate. To counteract this, she is requiring herself now to do only one thing at a time, just one: Listen to music or read a book or watch television or cook a meal or answer email or eat dinner or talk to a friend on the telephone or pay bills.
Just one thing at a time.
The ability to concentrate is closely aligned with memory, and as we discussed this further, Carolines concern struck a chord with me. Im older than she and Sophy by more than two decades and I have been mildly concerned with what I fear may be a short-term memory loss due to - what else? age. Thats what were conditioned to do as we get older: blame everything that goes wrong on our disintegration.
But since that conversation at brunch and Googling around the Web later, I now believe multitasking may have more to do with my memory problem - if there is one - than old age.
Theres scientific evidence that multitasking is extremely hard for somebody to do, and sometimes impossible, says David Meyer, a psychology professor at the University of Michigan, quoted in the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. Registration required
Chronic high-stress multitasking also is linked to short-term-memory loss, he says.
I do several things at once all the time and not just at work. Evenings, I frequently eat dinner, watch television clicking among several news channels, read a magazine and take phone calls at the same time. Ive always been a news junkie, reading several newspapers a day. In the past, I could remember in which publication I read anything. These days I cant do that as easily. Do you think it could be because Im reading many more publications online and more frequently than I ever did in hard copy? And surfing from one news site to the next to next with no visual and tactile context to remind me of the sources?
Could be.
Corporate America laid off millions of workers in the past few years and parceled out the work load to the remaining employees. One person now does what two and sometimes even three or four workers used to do, and what was a buzzword in 2001, is a requisite job skill today. Multitasking is now so accepted that it is unremarkable. You can read about how to get better at it in this piece of breathless multitasking advocacy at Fast Company. 
But quietly, off in a few corners of academia, experts have been questioning the health risks of multitasking and researching its effects. As Sue Shellenberger of the Wall Street Journal writes:
A growing body of scientific research shows that one of jugglers favorite time-saving techniques, multitasking, can actually make you less efficient and, well, stupider. Trying to do two or three things at once or in quick succession can take longer overall than doing them one at a time, and may leave you with reduced brainpower to perform each task.
Even without any researcher to tell me, I know I lose 15 or 20 minutes trying to recall the thread of my thoughts every time Im interrupted at work. And I am always interrupted - by instant messages, phone calls, email beeps, someone stopping by to ask a question. 
Just this preliminary survey around the Web has convinced me that my memory lapses have less to do with advancing age than with doing too many things at once. So Im going to try Carolines experiment for awhile. One thing at a time. Conscious living. Mindfulness, as Buddhists call it. Ill let you know how it works out.

", "Is it memory loss or multitasking?", '2004-04-27'),
(23, "lindatouw47@gmail.com", "linda touw", "
 It surprises me that I did not think to mention this a couple of weeks ago. My former husband, Alex Bennett, debuted his latest radio show 19 April on Sirius satellite channel 143. The programs airs live from 9AM to 12 noon in New York City and from 6AM to 9AM in San Francisco where he hosted several popular radio shows after leaving New York.
Its been 33 years, a divorce and a recently renewed friendship between us since I last produced his show. We are both a lot older and its good to know there are station owners who see the experience, talent and skill he brings to the medium instead of just his age. 
Ageism is alive and well, though, as this thread discussing Alexs return shows. Plenty of others, however, such as protoblogger doc searls have welcomed his return. 
You cant hear him, however, unless you subscribe to Sirius. Give it a try. Sometimes I agree with Alexs point of view and sometimes I dont, but for sure you wont be able to tell how old he is from his on-air delivery.
", "Former husband returns to NYC radio", '2004-04-28'),
(24, "joygollivef52@gmail.com", "joy gollivef", "
 This is Bob Edwards final week as host of the National Public Radio program, Morning Edition, and the last-minute round-up stories is accumulating.
On his final show Friday, Edwards will interview CBS-TV Sunday Morning host, Charles Osgood who says of Edwards in a Washington Post piece today by Jennifer Frey:
Here is someone who has been able to provide something distinctly different from the run-of-the-mill, and they seem hellbent on doing what everyone else is doing. And I think its an enormous mistake.
NPR ombudsman, Jeffrey Dvorkin, defends the network against the many accusations of age descrimination that have poured in, and justifies the decision to reassign Edwards by with a vague reference to young listeners:
I receive e-mails from listeners who say they find the serious tone of NPR fogey-esque. These presumably younger listeners still say they listen in spite of the length or the subject matter.
To me, that sounds suspiciously like NPR is planning to move toward the 90-second news story weve become accustomed to on television.
Edwards is not leaving NPR, he is being reassigned as a senior correspondent beginning in July. He was coy with Peter Goodman in Newsday about what the title means.
If you dont write something that says Im going to do this, it doesnt confine me to doing just that, he says. Im going to try to say, Its this, its this, its this over here. Wouldnt you?
Other TGB stories about Bob Edwards firing:
NPR fails even older folks 
NPR firing draws protests 
Bob Edwards firing part 3 


", "NPR Edwards' retirement draws near", '2004-04-29'),
(25, "jaybroad85@gmail.com", "jay broad", "
 Weight is one of the  well, weightier - problems of getting older, and thank god for elastic waistbands. By the time I finished menopause a decade ago, my waist had thickened to the circumference of my hips and there was no longer any such thing as pants or a skirt that could be zipped and buttoned if it also fit my hips.
Unwilling to inflict my extra flesh on the outside world, I became a master of camouflage. Jackets and dusters over elegant, loose sweaters or big, dress-down teeshirts hid my lack of a waist. I chose heavier fabrics that dont cling to the body too and fortunately, the color black is never out of style. If I intended to exercise my waistline down to a cuter size well, I never got around to it.
When I quit smoking nearly seven months ago, I knew I would pack on even more pounds. But I figured going tobacco-less was healthier even with some extra weight and, I believed, I could diet off the fat when I felt certain of my non-smoking status. 
What I have been careful of, very careful of, in the intervening months, is to avoid looking in the mirror when I get out of the shower. Me naked with 40 more pounds than I weighed at age 40, or even 25, I knew would not be a pretty picture. And I never slipped up once, never caught myself even out of the corner of my eye, in that mirror. Until this morning.
Oh  my  god. Every nightmare I ever had, pre-menopause, of what I might look like if I ever stopped dieting has come true. 
Its not quite what I said above about never getting around to losing the first batch of weight I gained in menopause. I never really tried. Id gone on a diet when I got chubby at puberty and had counted every forkful that went into my mouth for the next 30-odd years. So when middle age made losing those extra pounds a lot more difficult than it had been in the past, I said to hell with it - I wonder what it feels like to eat what I want without thinking about what it will do to my figure.
And it was fun. There is so much good food in the world. Haute cuisine French, Chinese dim sum on Sunday mornings, steak at Peter Lugers. Cones ice cream and Murrays Cheese shop on Bleecker Street. Rafettos fresh-made pasta and sauces. Ive eaten it all and so much more.
And now its time to stop. No Atkins or South Beach for me. I believe they are nutritionally dangerous and there is only one way to lose weight anyway: take in fewer calories than your body uses. Up the exercise and reduce the amount of food.
Its not necessary that my body looks like it did when I was 25, but I dont ever want to see again what I saw in the mirror this morning. Theres a skinny old lady in here somewhere and I think I can find her in about six months if Im diligent.

", "Theres a skinny old lady in here somewhere", '2004-04-30'),
(26, "anniegottlieb69@gmail.com", "annie gottlieb", "
 Until two days ago, I had never heard of Older Americans Month. I stumbled across a reference to this celebration online and it begins today.
When President Kennedy proclaimed May for older folks in April of 1963, it was called Senior Citizens Month. President Carter changed the name in 1980. According to the Administration on Aging, which oversees this salute to older folks, this is the purpose of the holiday:
Historically, Older Americans Month has been a time to acknowledge the contributions of past and current older persons to our country, in particular those who defended our country.
This conflicts a bit with the whip-cracking admonitions of the announcement on the same Website of this years theme  Aging Well, Living Well:
In addition to achieving a healthier lifestyle, older persons must also take steps to prepare for later life. These steps include understanding housing and long-term care options; gaining financial literacy and knowledge of retirement pension and benefits; and seeking opportunities for community participation and social engagement, including access to employment, volunteer, educational and leisure activities.
Nothing wrong with any of those ideas, but the tone of condescension and reproval is out of place for the purpose of the month as quoted above. Imagine going to a kids birthday party and reminding her to pick up her toys, be nice to her little brother and eat her broccoli.
Last year, the president, in his proclamation for the month, spent a large majority of the available space commending the federal government for what it has done for older folks instead of what older folks have contributed to America.
I have no desire to take on the federal government on their shift of topic from older folks themselves to the administrations so-called achievements for older folks, particularly when it is unlikely to make much of a dent in the public consciousness anyway given that Older Americans Month shares its recognition with 51 other month designations for May including National Barbecue Month, National Egg Month and National Salsa Month. 
But it might be a good opportunity for individuals to take the months name literally and get to know some older folks. American culture goes to great lengths to remove any reminders of aging from the view of younger people which makes older ones invisible much of the time. But if you look carefully, were there, right beside you in line at the grocery store, movie theater and Starbucks.
So take an older person to lunch this month. Go out and talk to someone older that you. Find out what you have in common  there is more than you might think. Help make Older Americans Month not about the Bush administrations bogus back-patting, but about older Americans themselves  as President Kennedy intended.

", "Older Americans month begins today", '2004-05-01'),
(27, "salindadahl39@gmail.com", "salinda dahl", "
 Getting older is not as bad as the media would have us believe. So far, at 63, I kinda like it. But aging has a habit of springing tricks on you and one of the most bothersome is also one of the most common - the disparity between what you feel like inside and what the mirror shows you.
The mirror and I have worked out an arrangement over time. I will look at my face only in segments  eyes, forehead, cheeks, chin, mouth as I wash or apply the various female emollients and arrange my hair and it wont do anything to shock me.
Some background to set the scene: once in a while, passing a plate glass window, I have caught a glimpse of myself and for an instant, wondered what my mother was doing there. Normally I cannot see the resemblance, but on occasion it leaps out unexpectedly like that. Sunday morning a similar kind of passing glance happened in the bathroom mirror as I rose from retrieving a dropped tissue.
Who is that grandmother in the mirror, I wondered. For a nanosecond, I really did think it was someone else, but then I understood it was me even though the reflection didnt look anything like what I know I look like. At least, not me as I know me from the inside. From that interior vantage point, Im a normally attractive grown up, probably in her early 40s - something close to the third photo from the right up above.
But in the mirror Sunday morning was a fuller face, somewhat lumpy looking with softer features than I believe I have. And that hair  long hair pulled back and up off the neck. All in all, thoroughly grandmotherish. I was fascinated and couldnt stop staring. The actress Tyne Daly came to mind. I looked like a grandmother in the same kind of way she plays one on the TV series, Judging Amy.
Its the oldest story there is about getting older. After a certain age, no one feels on the inside what they look like on the outside. And whose fault is that? Not mine. But it is directly connected to the messages we are bombarded with every day about the virtues of youth, youth and youth. There are so many newspaper and magazine stories lately about plastic surgery  even 20-somethings and 70-somethings are having it - that it is becoming un-American not to. Youre not doing your part for God and country and the denial of death if youre not being peeled, Botoxed and suctioned within an inch of Nancy Reagan eyes.
I just hate that. And I hate that Im taking a stand here on this blog for the acceptance of older folks as we are, and even I succumb to the cultural imperative to put a bag over my head so not offend others with my grandmotherly visage. Life shouldnt be like that. And we should do something to fix it.
", "The grandmother in the mirror", '2004-05-04'),
(28, "joannebradley48@gmail.com", "joanne bradley", "
 I was inspired to give you a better sense than just a name and mouseover alt tag of the Weblogs Ive linked under the header Older Bloggers when I took a closer look than I had the first time around at Debra Galants site. 
Today its Ian Bertram and his Panchromatica blog. Ive been reading Ian and exchanging the occasional email with him since sometime last year. If memory serves, he discovered my earliest stabs at this blog last fall and also found fotolog through me. We both post photos there regularly. You can find Ians flog here. 
Panchromatica is concerned with people, places and world politics with an emphasis, at least recently, on politics. Hes a serious man with passion for world peace and human rights, but he also has a wicked sense of the absurd as demonstrated by this link and this link I took from his site. 
Ian has a second blog, Panchromatica2, that he says will concentrate culture, music and art. If he were putting it to a vote, I go with blogging it all in one place, but if he insists, Ill visit both. And so should you.
 


", "Panchromatica", '2004-05-04'),
(29, "danielbmartin82@gmail.com", "daniel b martin", "
 Botox, collagen, plastic surgery and even voice surgery are so widely used nowadays that you can hardly find anyone who will admit to being old, let alone to thinking it is not a crime to be so.
When the media deign to portray older folks at all, we are almost always shown in caricature  sick, sexless and silly. As the 83-year-old, former 20/20 host, Hugh Downs, puts it:
It is depressing to see old portrayed as close to senile because it is contrary to how people our age feel.
- The Cleveland Plain Dealer, 26 March 2004
The negative media image of people older than about 45 makes it difficult to find out what people think and feel about getting older. But a few brave celebrities  people whose livelihoods depend on being able to get work in the public eye  have spoken up. Not at great length, but they make some interesting points.
Yoko Ono, who is 71 years old, was asked what John Lennon would have been like, this year, at 64.
He would be just John, says Yoko,  - all that he was beforeBut I think talking about a persons age is ageism, like racism or sexism. It isolates attitudes.
- Naples Daily News, 19 March 2004
57-year-old David Bowie says its harder to get his music heard on radio stations these days, but he likes that life is getting simpler as he gets older.
I was quite scared of getting old in my 40s, he says. But as I approach 60  you learn to embrace getting older.
- cbsnews.com, 8 March 2004
Actress Teri Garr is 54 and says age is rough on actresses and on women in general.
Oh, being a woman over 50. They might as well throw you out the window. I guess its for everybody whos aging, but its really left for men. Its much [worse] for women. And its not even 50; its 40. You hit 40 and thats it. I dont know how fair that is. Its like women over 40 and 50 dont exist.
- Backstage, 29 March 2004
Former White House press secretary and host of Now with Bill Moyers on PBS is embracing age as he plans to retire from television after the November election.
I turn 70 this year and while theres no marker at the border, I know Im entering unfamiliar territory. Its as if some imaginary trip wire breaks and the little odometer on your psychic dashboard starts clicking faster and faster. All of a sudden the horizon that once seemed far, far away, looms right there in front of you. You feel an irresistible urge to slow down, to take your foot off the accelerator, touch it to the brake  gently, but surely  and start negotiating yourself out of the fast lane.
- Alternet.org, 16 March 2004
Garrison Keillor, 61, says after suffering a midlife crisis, he has come to terms with getting older. He now thinks happiness is easier to come by for older people and he has a lot of what he calls old guy advice about that.
Go for a nice walk and do some push-ups. Sex is always good. A hamburger will work, if you make it right and make it yourself. It should be rare and have raw onion and a lot of mustard. A martini, just one, is really fabulous. Going to Mass on Sunday morning, if it is the right sort of Mass, when the homily is short and the choir hangs together just rightSleep. Sleep is always good. You almost always feel better when you wake up. Baseball games. And Louis ArmstrongThere are so many ways you can make yourself feel better.
- Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, 31 March 2004
Jack Nicholson, who turned 67 just a couple of weeks ago, thinks he might like to be a role model for some of us.
My generation is the new old, he says. Were living longer. If I cant find real models, my idea would be to inspire that. I dont want to live thinking that everyone in the world thinks that life is over at 45 years old, because it certainly isnt.
- Time, 8 December 2003
74-year-old Doris Roberts plays the mother on Everybody Loves Raymond. In her spare time, she speaks out against ageism, even appearing before Congress in 2002.
Its terrible the way we have been air-brushed out of society, she says. There are very few women over the age of 50 who are working [as actresses]. I happen to be one of them, and Im very grateful. But its wrong. Dont we have doctors, lawyers, judges, executives, who are women over the age of 40? Of course we do. But no magazines will even carry an article about them. Were a group theyre uninterested in. And its the last bastion of bigotry in this country...
- Backstage, 24 February 2004
Bette Midler is 57 now, and says she and her husband are slowing down. But she doesnt mind.
Its very curious to be this old, she says. Ive never been this old. I kind of dont dislike it.
- More, December 2003
We began with Hugh Downs and lets finish with his good advice to folks of all ages.
It might be wise for people to start thinking about their later years earlier than they usually do. It is one minority that, with luck, we will all join. We need to be able to think about getting older.
- Iowa City Press-Citizen, 30 March 2004
Hes right and thats what we are doing here at timegoesby.net  thinking out loud about getting older.
", "Famous older folks speak up about aging", '2004-05-05'),
(30, "dianalynn73@gmail.com", "diana lynn", "
 It doesnt seem fair to take a closer look at the newest addition to the older bloggers list before the earlier entries, but Thomas posted a note here a couple of days ago and I got lost reading of his adventures as a peace activist at And the Various Journeys Continue. 
At an age  61 in his case  when many people are looking for a quieter life, Thomas, a Vietnam veteran, signed on with the Non-Violent Peace Force whose mission is:
To facilitate the creation of a trained, international civilian nonviolent peaceforce. The Peaceforce will be sent to conflict areas to prevent death and destruction and protect human rights, thus creating the space for local groups to struggle nonviolently, enter into dialogue, and seek peaceful resolution.
These days, however, Sri Lanka is a politically complicated and dangerous place where a brutal civil war has been raging for 20 years. Thomas writes more about his activities with his international group of colleagues in the Peaceforce than local politics, though he doesnt dismiss the painful realities of life there and when he does address those issues, it is with great thoughtfulness.
Thomas is a poet. Hes been writing poetry, it seems, all his life and he includes older poems there is a stunning piece written on a particularly bad day in Vietnam in 1968 with current, new work. And sometimes his poetry is written in prose, as in his reminiscence of a return trip to Vietnam in 2002, including a visit to the My Lai memorial which is every bit as poetic as any writing arranged in stanza and rhyme.
A peace activist since his return from military service in Vietnam nearly 40 years ago, Thomas holds strong beliefs about mankinds inability to control our warring instincts and perhaps that is what fuels the growing collection of photos on his blog documenting the beauty of Sri Lanka which frequently accompany his lovely riffs on personal tranquility.

", "Various Journeys", '2004-05-05'),
(31, "willatrautmann21@gmail.com", "willa trautmann", "
 When the owner of a German engineering firm near Stuttgart lost six mid-career employees he had trained for ten years to larger companies like Porsche, Daimler and Bosch, he was at first flummoxed about where he could find experienced replacements. But after some research, Otmar Fahrion had more engineers than he could use  excellent ones.
Wefound there was a pool of engineers with the know-how, experience, dedication, flexibility and eagerness right under our noses, he says. There were all these engineers with great skills who were pushed off into early retirement after about the age of 50.
Even moreso than in the U.S., Germany squanders the professional talents and experience of its citizens. A recent survey there found that 60 percent of businesses employ no one older than 50, and only about half of German men between 55 and 64 are employed.
That older workers are shoved off like they are is a shameful mistake from an economic point of view, says Fahrion, especially if you consider how much the state invested in their university educations, and a scandal from a sociological point of view. Its madness. Almost no one will hire anyone over 50. There is a terrible obsession with youth in our society.
I have more personal knowledge than I wish I did of how true that is in the U.S. too. Age discrimination in the workplace can begin as young as the mid-thirties. It ramps up by the time workers reach age 45 and accelerates from there. Although discrimination based on age is as illegal in the U.S. as discrimination based on race or gender, it is widely practiced due, probably, to the persistence of myths about what older people are like. Some of those myths are:

Older people are unproductive, inefficient and inflexible
Older people take more time off work for health reasons
Its not worth training older folks because they will retire soon
Older employees cost too much and reduce profits
", "Advantages of older workers", '2004-05-06'),
(32, "saralynne11@gmail.com", "sara lynne", "
 Fred, who resides at Fragments from Floyd, posted a very nice piece there yesterday about my Weblog. He says he too thinks a lot about getting older and he related this excellent vision he once had:
In this in-sight I saw the verb aging to be akin to sailing, skating, surfing - an action verb implying the passage of the subject through a medium. The medium is time. It swirls past us as we remain constant, keeping our balance, wind in our faces. Its passage pulls at our skin, frays our joints, saps energy from muscles. But too, it gives us perspective, gives us laugh lines, makes us wise. But it does little to the core of our essential personhood that we have worn from the beginning.
Yes! she said, jabbing her fist toward the sky. Cant you picture it. This feels so correct, so right on as we used to say. It is an image I will happily hold with me while I write about getting older here.
Fred also issued a challenge to all bloggers related to my banner up there at the top:
Find ten photographs of you at different ages, up to the present. Make a Time Travel Montage and post it or a link to it on your weblogThis is a powerful image to me. I think this continuity of self you can see in such image-sequences could speak, too, to younger people who have not yet dealt with the reality of age - who perhaps fear it and shun or stereotype the chronologically gifted in a negative way. Whaddaya think?
I think its a terrific idea, Fred. Be sure to read all of Freds Challenge; I clipped part of it to quote more briefly here. 
Imagine a Website of such banners. And there is a bonus for you in doing this: the time you will spend plowing through and perusing old photos to find the ten you want to to use to demonstrate the years from childhood until now will bring forth floods of unexpected memories. Moments you have not thought of in years perhaps. Moods and feelings will return of the time and place a picture was made. There will be surprises you cant imagine until you do this.
You could lose several days on such a project, but it will pay you back many times over in personal pleasure, knowledge and understanding. And sometimes, it can even change beliefs about yourself and your life that you have held for years. I spent months sorting old pictures when I did my timeline fotolog and by the end, I had changed a whole lot of attitudes, ideas and beliefs that had been mouldering in the recesses of my memory for as long as some of the old photos.
So if you think Freds Challenge is a good idea, get on with it. Start now. And pass it on by linking to Freds Challenge to urge others to join in. Imagine if 10 people did this. And then 30 people. And then 50. And friends, as Arlo Guthrie sang, they may thinks its a movement...
", "Fred's Challenge", '2004-05-07'),
(33, "astridvolkert93@gmail.com", "astrid volkert", "
 This is a flyspeck of a problem compared to the Iraq war, torture of U.S.-held prisoners and the deceptions carried out by the current administration in Washington. I cannot affect what President Bush and his cohorts do, but I can take care of my little issue.
A woman whose Weblog I listed under Older Bloggers began her own blogroll with the same title using links from my list. So far, so good. Wider distribution of Websites I like is the point of the blogroll.
She acknowledges in a post buried because she only publishes excerpts on her home page that her list is completely stolen from Ronni Bennett, and links my name to my About page with an additional link to home page. All that is still generally well and good.
Then I discovered she has posted all my links, no new ones, under the title Older Bloggerss Digest, on one of those aggregate Weblog list sites, and doesnt even credit me there.
That takes balls.
Use my stuff. Quote me whenever, wherever you like. Tell others about stuff you find here that you like. But play nice and give credit. That includes using the via convention to acknowledge the original source when you learn of a Weblog worth writing about from another blog. Its the right thing to do.
Whew! Im glad I got that off my chest.
And Ive removed the offender from my blogroll.

", "Old enough to play nice", '2004-05-07'),
(34, "wishfulthinking47@gmail.com", "wishful thinking", "
 Sharon Brogan is the proud owner, she notes, of a rejection letter from The New Yorker magazine which she has pinned to her wall. Showing better taste, Calyx, a Journal of Art and Literature by Women, has published Sharon.
Watermark, A Poets Corner is filled with Sharons writing and many compelling photos, some which seem to deliberately accompany a particular poem and some for other blogging purposes or which stand on their own. What attracted me the first time I visited Watermark is an ethereal quality to the layout of Sharons Weblog that pulls me in, when I visit, in a quiet but insistent manner. Perhaps it is related to a quote she has posted from Alice Notley:
I think the poet becomes more and more of a shaman, getting older, in the sense that so much happens to one, and theres nothing left but the poetry function, which is a healing, ecstatic function, as much as it is anything else.
Do you think that can come through the screen from a Weblog?
There is a section, Solstice Letter, which is a fairly lengthy series of short poems guiding the reader through Sharons sensibilities of the seasons of an entire year.
Its just my take, but I think Sharons great strength is the very short poem  almost haiku in form. Three that stand out for me:
She writes here
sitting alone
at a table for two
drinking lemon tea
this heavy braid
the only remnant
of my youth
body like a river
all slow curves
and pools
Sharon lives in way off Montana with a couple of dogs, a couple of cats, some other pets and nearby friends. Her Weblog is a special place, perhaps of renewal  and we can all use some of that now and again.
NOTE: I took issue yesterday with Sharon for not crediting me on another site. It was an innocent mistake and I believe we have resolved this between us. 

", "Watermark", '2004-05-08'),
(35, "joygolliver51@gmail.com", "joy golliver", "
 Im sure those desert cammies our troops in Iraq wear do whatever job they were designed to do, but one of them is not to help our guys look handsome. Even when officers are giving briefings on television in dressier uniforms, you can tell that style was not on the governments mind when they thought up these duds.
But look at this guy. Hes my dad, Theodore Landis Haist, in about 1942, dressed in his Army Air Corps uniform just before he was sent overseas. Yes, he is impossibly young in this photo, but doesnt he look spiffy in that World War II uniform.  
The reason I bring this up is that I received an email a few days ago from a woman, Rana, whose Weblog banner is a photo of her dad in North Africa during World War II in the same kind of uniform as my dads. Those guys looked so slick and I wonder, sometimes, whatever happened to a sense of style in our lives.
But that is still not the most important reason to tell you about Ranas Website.
At 40, shes too young to be an Older Blogger, but she has a lifelong affinity for older folks. She thinks maybe it is because she was a late baby, born when her mother was 40, or that her housemate is 74 years old. Whatever it is, she gets older folks and that is abundantly evident in her short, short story, Getting Old in a Little Town, about the eccentric old folks she grew up with in west Texas.
There isnt a lot of writing about older people any more than there are many movies or TV shows about us,  so hardly anyone knows what were really like. But Rana does and she writes like a dream. Click on over there to read this story and while youre there, dip into the rest of her site. You will be glad you did.

", "Getting old in a little town", '2004-05-11'),
(36, "mariavelazquez49@gmail.com", "maria velazquez", "
 I found these 2blowhards, Michael and Freidrich, thanks to Ian over at Panchromatica. They write on their site description:
In which two graying eternal amateurs discuss their passions, interests and obsessions, among them: movies, art, politics, evolutionary biology, taxes, writing, computers, these kids these days, and lousy Ivy educations.
And they do blow hard, no doubt about that. But its such high class, intelligent, wide-ranging blather that you gotta love em, and quite frequently they are on to something.
Michael was musing not so long ago about how his attitudes have changed as he has gotten older. 
How to explain the fact that what we believe about the significance of our tastes, reactions and interests changes? As youngsters: Wow, holy shit, the whole world oughta stop and take note. As crusty middle-agers: Ah, finally, now I truly understand, what was I thinking of before?
Friedrich, whose 50th birthday is fast approaching, noticed, a week or so ago, that as the urgency of his sex drive diminishes, his appreciation, even wonder, at the complexity of his wifes enjoyment grows.
But thinking back to my younger days, Im not so sure that the disparity between the masculine and feminine sexual experience wasnt always present. I just dont think I was prepared to acknowledge it when I was 25. Which is too bad, as the awe that I feel these daysand I cant think of a better word for itis a real and remarkable addition to the whole experience. Maybe the diminishing role of my ego is opening up a space for a certain amount of the sublime to enter in.
I dont mean to imply that the 2blowhards talk about getting older all the time. I chose those quotes because this Weblog is about aging and they are interesting about that topic. But they range all over the place. Even solitaire recently gave rise to a weird and funny exchange about men and woman:
Does your wife love playing solitaire? asks Michael. My Wife loves Spider Solitaire, my sister loves Freecell, a niece loves Strict Klondike, and at work friend has Forty Thieves on her Windows desktop 24/7. Based on this statistically significant sample, Im working on a theory that women love solitaire card games
...But solitaire doesnt appeal to me at all. In accordance with my theory, Ive decided to attribute my dislike of solitaire card games to my brawny and untamed hetero dude-hood. Does it hold any appeal for you?
You gotta laugh out loud.
Unlike many non-political Weblogs, 2Blowhard draws a lot of commenters. Sometimes this is excellent, but frequently you just need the 2Blowhard talking with each other and the notes from readers are a bother. Just skip them if they get in the way.
Although these two guys can be a bit elitist for my taste, they are otherwise smart, funny, knowledgeable on a wide range of topics and are keen observers of themselves and of life. Take a look.

", "2Blowhards", '2004-05-12'),
(37, "marj25@gmail.com", "marj", "
 Ageism is defined in part by Robert Butler who coined the term in 1969, as the systematic stereotyping of and discrimination against people because they are old. It is every bit as wrong and demeaning as racism and sexism, but is so deeply ingrained in American culture that it is perpetrated with impunity every day in the media and hardly anyone objects.
Catching up on my magazine reading on an airplane yesterday, this short book review, written by Barbara Kantrowitz in the Snap Judgment section of Newsweek, snapped me to attention. In its entirety, it reads:
Confessions of a Bigamist, by Kate Lehrer

Youve got to feel a little bit of sympathy for Michelle Banyon, Lehrers 47-year-old heroine. Shes torn between two lovers: her high-powered Manhattan husband and a passionate Texas naturalist she meets when she literally runs him over and then nurses him back to health. Who will she choose? The titles a hint. Her romantic juggling act is a middle-aged womans fantasy tale  hardly realistic, but a great escape.", "Casual Ageism", '2004-05-13'),
(38, "lesmorehouse88@gmail.com", "les morehouse", "
 By definition, we older bloggers are computer savvy, but not all older folks are  yet.
Howard Millman is moving online computer literacy forward by teaching a class at Westchester Community College in buying and selling on eBay. He says older people and the auction site are a natural together.
Its a good retirement activity, and they have a lot of stuff, says Millman.
And getting rid of her stuff is why one of his students, a 62-year-old, is taking the class.
Spring cleaning, she says. I have lots of things in my house. I want to divest and make more space in my house.
Older folks and the Internet are a natural for reasons way beyond eBay. Sometimes its harder to get around as we age. Maybe we stop driving too. When friends move to Florida and children leave the area, its easy for older people to become isolated. The Internet is a terrific solution to keeping up to date, pursuing interests, finding new ones, staying in touch, making new friends and - even pubishing a Weblog.
A recent study from the Pew Institute on Older Americans and the Internet reports that people older than 65 are the fastest growing segment of new Internet users. So many older folks are jumping online now that the researchers referred to the phenomenon in the their report as the silver tsunami.
Even so, only 22 percent of people 65 and older are online as of March 2004, according to the Pew report. 
Some people missed the computer revolution and havent been exposed to the charms of the Web. Others may have impairments that make it difficult to use a keyboard, a mouse or to see print on the screen. But developers are beginning to address these problems. Unisys and undoubtedly its competitors have a voice browser interface that allows retrieval of information through speech.
Microsoft has a large list of Windows-compatible products to assist users with visual, hearing and mobility impairments.
And a number of companies make add-on products such as Web Eyes to aid online readability. 
More advances will be released in the coming years to satisfy all those baby boomers who will demand ways to get around any debilities that show up as they get older. 
Andrea Sherman is a gerontologist at the New York University Division of Nursing. She believes that increased computer use among older people is a harbinger of a new kind of aging.
The older adult of today is more forward-looking than in the past, says Sherman, quoted in the Westchester Journal News. For so long, weve thought about aging as a problem, a disease. Its been seen as something to avoid. Now, theres a new paradigm. There are creative ways to grow old: You can explore, venture, create, all throughout your life.
You and I already know that. Were doing it. Now lets pass it on. If there is someone you think could benefit from having a better grasp of computers and the Web, make some time to help out. Or teach a class for older folks at your local community college. Or if youre upgrading to a new computer, give your old one to an older novice and throw in some assistance in gettng started.
Bring some others into our fold and lets all be part of increasing that 22 percent of 65-plus folks using the Internet. It will change their lives for the better and make you feel good too.
", "The Internet and older folks", '2004-05-14'),
(39, "e.b.rivers47@gmail.com", "e. b. rivers", "
 I met my oldest friend in New York City in 1970, when my then-husband and I moved his radio program, The Alex Bennett Show which I produced, from WMCA to WPLJ-FM.
She stood up and came around from behind her desk when we were introduced in her office. That day she was wearing a green suede miniskirt and matching vest with a silk blouse. She had huge, dark eyes, long, silky black hair, a warm smile and a deep, smoky voice. I shook her hand, but had no intention of becoming friends with someone as beautiful as she.
But I did anyway. 
In those days, she had a funky studio apartment with a fireplace in a townhouse on West 9th Street between 5th and 6th Avenues  the prettiest block in all of New York City  just a few doors from Balduccis where any and all manner of fine food could be had, for a price. We bought in small quantities in those days.
After I left my husband in late 1971, we spent a lot of good time at that apartment eating lightly to watch our weight, drinking good wine, smoking cigarettes and other funny stuff, and listening to music. She was the music director at WPLJ during the best years of rock-and-roll, and no one, to this day, can match her ear for popular music of all stripes, but particularly rock and blues.
We both loved New York City and we sometimes daydreamed in those days about our old age: buying a brownstone together so each of us could have a floor to ourselves and share the living room, dining room and kitchen.
Eventually she married and had a daughter. Lives being so different for singles versus married with children, we didnt see so much of one another then, nor after she divorced. Life was busy during the week, she had a house in upstate New York where she went on weekends, so we, until the past year, kept up a lively conversation by email. She was smart, observant, thoughtful and articulate and a joy to talk with this way.
Sometime in the past 10 or 12 years, it had been discovered that she has hepatitis C. The hardest part for her to bear in the control of the disease was to cut alcohol consumption. I dont mean to imply that she is a drunk by any means whatsoever. But she loved good wine and she knew more about good wine than any other woman Ive known. She defied her doctors by allowing herself two or three glasses a week. 
We hadnt seen one another in a while when we met for dinner one evening in February 2003. I handed her the wine list to choose a bottle for us before I remembered, apologetically, the hep C. For Gods sake, Ronni, she said, what do I care about hep C. I have cancer. We laughed and she picked out a good wine.
Though she had quit smoking 25 years earlier, she had just been diagnosed with an aggressive lung cancer. Chemotherapy and surgery were prescribed. 
My oldest friend in New York City died last week while I was out of town on business. She is Jewish, so the funeral was held before I returned, and although her death was not unexpected, it was  as deaths always are  a blow. Also, because she was five or six years younger than I, her death seems not fair to me. I am here and she is not. There is no making sense of the time we are each allotted.
Funerals, memorials, sitting shiva and other ceremonies of remembrance are never for the dead. They are for the living. We who are left to mourn, each in our way depending on philosophy, sensibility and religion, usually choose to believe that the dead have gone to a better place, or at least have been removed from suffering. And now we, the survivors, must find a way past the suffering of our loss.
There is no recourse, no second chance, no special pleading that will return loved ones to us. There is nothing else so final as death.
As fate or chance would have it, many of my friends have died young. Also by fate or chance, most of them, and my family who have died, lived on the west coast, 3,000 miles from me. Although we spoke on the telephone frequently and wrote letters no email yet in those days, we did not visit in person so often. And what that means after they died, is that it still often feels to me that we just havent talked in a while, or made time to get on an airplane for a visit.
And this, through the years, eases some of the pain of missing them - well get around to talking or visiting soon, it seems. And this time, with my oldest friend in New York, perhaps it be the same because we did not see one another as often as when we were young.
It strikes me today that this death is the first in my life due to old age. If the average life span is 70-something, some must die younger to create that mathematical average. So from now on  I am 63 - the deaths of my contemporaries cannot be said to be unexpected or too young. And it is unlikely that I will be so lucky, in the future, to pretend we just have not visited for a while.
But I still can do that this time.

", "A Death Too Young", '2004-05-16'),
(40, "joanbeverstock32@gmail.com", "joan beverstock", "
UPDATE: Denny Coates discontinued his Book of Life Weblog on 1 July 2004, to concentrate on other endeavors. He left the door ajar to return one day and the blogosphere would certainly welcome him back.
 Denny Coates, a former Army brat and West Point graduate who served as an Army officer for 20 years, settled some years ago with his wife in south Florida. He is currently the CEO of a company that publishes assessment and self-improvement programs for corporations. His Weblog, Book of Life is, he says, a scratchpad for serious thought about my life. And that it is.
He uses family events, local wildlife like the backyard bunny report, pets, recipes, visits to museums, the farmers market, a flower show and such - with a lot of photographs - to delve into questions and issues surrounding what it means to be human in general and Denny Coates in particular. A lot of it applies to any of us.
Denny, now 60, is a seeker  of knowledge, understanding and self-improvement which aligns with how he earns his living. Always a nice bit of accomplishment that: to work at what you care about.
At the bottom of each daily post, is a Fortune Cookie that relates to the theme of the post. These sayings, in turn, link to related pages of quotes, affirmations meant to inspire. Such has never been my thing, but Ive learned that I am the odd man out on that sort of inspiration, and you should ignore my doubts.
What does inspire me at Dennys site are such entries as his description of a visit to the Frick Museum in New York City. I am envious that I could not have the guide he tells us about for a visit of my own, and his appreciation of that guide is sensitively and warmly told. 
And I have reread several times his contrarian view of Carlos Casteneda as a novelist, not a seer. One of his conclusions in this piece, that 
The ability to apprehend unadorned reality is the source of the warriors power. A warrior is simply someone who has the courage to walk that path as a self-reliant individual.
ties in nicely with an idea from his first Weblog post in December 2003. He has just described some minor aches and pains:
And a voice inside tells me, This pain is your friend. You are still alive to feel it. I can describe a scenario in which you would do anything to have this pain again...
Some people might think these thoughts are morbid. To me, its just being real. I guess I really buy into the idea that death is your advisor, be aware of his presence always within arms reach...
Some people find my Website morbid, discussing as it does, getting old, the natural precursor to death. Something Denny and I obviously share, is a desire  or perhaps a compulsion  to look past the American denial of death and see if we can make sense of it for ourselves.
One way of doing this is to look life right in the eye, in its unadorned reality. Denny works hard at that and you will find his Weblog an inspiration for seeking your own answers - or at least the right questions - to the big puzzles of life.
", "Book of Life", '2004-05-17'),
(41, "kathleenstansfield77@gmail.com", "kathleen stansfield", "
 Ive received several emails about my reviews of the ElderBloggers Weblogs, a couple being thank-you notes from the Weblog owners and some others wondering about my kindness in the reviews.
Let me explain: These are not reviews and it is not kindness. Nobody gets on the Older Bloggers list unless I like the Weblog.
I have an offline list of additional older bloggers sites, but for one reason or another, they dont strike my fancy enough to be included. That doesnt necessarily make them bad blogs; it just means Im being subjective. And to that point, friends will tell you that Im a tough critic, probably too tough.
There are two other criteria for inclusion: you must be at least 45 years old and you must post at least once a week. Beyond that, I dont need to be deeply interested in the topic of the Weblog or even agree with what the blogger writes well, within some limits. What I want is to be engaged by what I read, and that is almost always closely related to the passion of the writer for his or her subject.
Any or all of the above criteria may change as time goes by.
So dont think of these as overly kind reviews. By the time I write about a Weblog, Ive already decided its good. My stories, in reaction to endless blogrolls with no apparent criteria, are to give readers some information on which to base a decision to visit.

", "Weblog Reviews Clarification", '2004-05-17'),
(42, "msull12@gmail.com", "msull", "
 Im going to catch some flak for this post for I am clearly in the minority on this, out of step with the mainstream, and I can feel the slings and arrows coming my way as I write.
Have you heard of The Red Hat Society? If you havent yet, you soon will. And if youre a woman, you may even be a member already. It is the latest thing for folks of the female persuasion who are age 50 and older, and Ive been running into it all over the Web for the past year or so.
A recent story from the Albuquerque Tribune supplies a good sense of what The Red Hat Society is about, along with this explanation from club founder, Sue Ellen Cooper:
Its about getting older together in a positive way, she says from the clubs hatquarters in Fullerton, California. Because there are a lot of good things about this time. The kids are gone, theres more time for yourself, you probably care less about what other people think, and there are new vistas.
Its hard to argue against that, so whats my problem?
The idea of this group is that when members  who use such adjectives as sassy, free-spirited and convention-spurning to describe themselves - get together, they wear - all of them - a red hat and a purple dress. The genesis of this is a poem The Red Hat Society founder discovered a few years before her 50th birthday.
Warning
When I am an old woman I shall wear purple
With a red hat which doesnt go and doesnt suit me.
And I shall spend my pension on brandy and summer gloves
And satin sandals, and say weve no money for butter.
I shall sit down on the pavement when Im tired
And gobble up samples in shops and press alarm bells
And run my stick along the public railings
And make up for the sobriety of my youth.
I shall go out in the slippers in the rain
And pick the flowers in other peoples gardens
And learn to spit.
You can wear terrible shirts and grow more fat
And eat three pounds of sausages at a go
Or only bread and pickle for a week
And hoard pens and pencils and beermats and things in boxes.
But now we must have clothes that keep us dry
And pay our rent and not swear in the street
And set a good example for the children.
We must have friends to dinner and read the papers.
But maybe I ought to practise a little now?
So people who know me are not too shocked and surprised
When suddenly I am old, and start to wear purple.
- Jenny Joseph 1961", "Older ladies and the red hat society", '2004-05-18'),
(43, "kathybee79@gmail.com", "kathy bee", "
 According to studies conducted by Becca Levy, an assistant professor at Yale University, a positive perception of aging can extend life expectancy by more than seven-and-a-half years.
In fact, says Levy, who studies attitudes toward aging, ones perception of aging affects longevity more than such other factors as gender, loneliness, health and socioeconomic status. Writing for boomercareer.com free registration required, Denise Lang neatly condenses some of Levys findings:
not only does a persons perceptions of aging form when they are young and are reinforced for most of their lives, but the formation of these perceptions are unconsciously internalized. In short, by the time you reach a point in your life when your thoughts turn to aging, your negative  or positive  perceptions of yourself and others have already become part of our attitudes.
According to Professor Levy,
People are not always aware theyre taking in these stereotypes. Part of it is transmitted by our culture and subcultures. Then there are also a range of other factors  like what we are exposed to on television, for example  how they perpetuate stereotypes, and the repetitive nature of these stereotypes.
Every day, we are bombarded with off-handed, casual instances of ageism. They are so common we hardly notice most of the time and now, according to Levy, age prejudice, bias and bigotry are more than bad, and sometimes illegal, behavior - they can kill us earlier than we might have died otherwise.
Professor Levy encourages everyone to be vigilant about negative stereotypes of aging and I urge you to follow her advice:
Question negative stereotypes wherever you find them, she says. We need to translate this knowledge into change.
Send timegoesby.com instances of ageism that you find  in magazines, newspapers, books, in movies and on television, at work and anywhere else. Send links if you have them, or just tell us your stories. One way to fight bigotry is to expose it to the light.
", "Ageism can kill", '2004-05-19'),
(44, "karenharrilchak54@gmail.com", "karen harrilchak", "
 Deb is an American living in the U.K. because, she tells us, shes married to a Brit, a man she met online. She describes her Weblog, Deborama, which has been around for about 15 months, as
news links; history; politics; religion; sex; in other words all the things it is not polite to talk about at parties
I suspect that Deb, much like me, isnt very good at keeping her mouth shut at parties about those topics and she sure isnt shy online. You dont realize at first that Deb is mostly a pointer, supplying short lead-ins to excerpts and links, or three- or four-sentence mini-assessments of the items or sites she is linking to. She does it with such personal assurance and breathless energy that youre convinced each entry is of earth-shaking importance  and sometimes, given the times we are living through, thats so.
The fact is, Deb is really excellent at choosing sites with important, good, interesting, surprising, funny, well-written, need-to-know information. Her politics are unapologetically way left, and Im glad shes doing that since I bite my tongue or is it cross fingers when youre online? every day to not stray off-topic on this Weblog.
Deb is, essentially, a digital gadfly  one of the greats  keeping disparate corners of the Web pulled together in one place so very little thats worthwhile, particularly political, gets overlooked.
She is also certain that she knows whats best. She doesnt just give you a list of books shes reading; she gives you a list of books You should read this year. Yes, maam! 
Shes got more sites on her blogroll than these old eyes can stand to parse. And more links to a whole lot more sites of various kinds on her Fund of Knowledge page and shes got recipes for you too along with some nice photos of the two kids and new grandchild who has a beautiful name: Savannah.
Deb manages to give so much energy to static information that youre not sure after a trip to her place that it isnt all in Flash. I wish she would do something about that evil, little pop-up box that the Google blocker cant seem to handle, but that doesnt make Deborama any less worth the effort to click the link.
", "Deborama", '2004-05-21'),
(45, "jeanherzog36@gmail.com", "jean herzog", "
 There is a new blogging survey from Henry Copeland at blogads.com measuring various demographics and behaviors of the 17,159 people who participated in the survey between the 17th and 19th of May.
The first stat that caught my attention, though unrelated to age, is that only 20.9 percent of the respondents identified themselves as bloggers. 79.1 percent are readers only. Somehow, in producing this Weblog, Ive been thinking that visitors are, for the most part, other bloggers. Give that one seconds thought and of course its not true. I cant imagine where I got that dumb idea.
Dont forget that there are millions of bloggers plus who knows how many who read only, and participation is certainly skewed by which Weblogs linked to the survey. So the results represent a small, self-selected sampling of the blog universe [click the link above for other caveats]. But the survey is nevertheless interesting in regard to the results that relate to older people. I am pleasantly surprised.
AGE: 19 percent, 4800 respondents, are age 51 or older, and 170, one percent, are older than 71 for a total of 20 percent of us older folks out there playing in the blogosphere. Im impressed. And that percentage is likely to grow as, according to another, more scientific recent survey, the 65-plus crowd is the fastest-growing demographic on the Internet.
RETIRED: 3.9 percent, or 669 people, identified themselves as retired, a word that feels increasingly anachronistic these days. Few people talk about doing that anymore as they approach their late 50s and sixties, but for those who have retired or will do so, the Internet is a sensational tool for keeping in touch and active, as Ive written about. 
POLITICAL AFFILIATION: This is worth looking at in regard to older folks because we tend to vote in larger numbers than younger people. A total of 60.4 percent identify themselves as Democrats or Independents. This number reinforces my anecdotal sense that there are a lot more liberals online than conservatives. 
Of course, it is more than probable that my personal bias is showing in the sites and Weblogs I visit. But I spent a lot of free time over the past two months scouring the Internet for any kind of older bloggers, whatever their political leanings or interests, and far more often than not when the the blogs I found were of a political bent, they were liberal.
I have no idea if that means anything and it is not unlikely that it can be consigned to the same bin as my mistaken idea that all blog visitors are bloggers.
Mr. Copeland says he will release more information from the survey today, so check out the results and see what you think. 
", "Older Blogger Statistics", '2004-05-24'),
(46, "johngraham56@gmail.com", "john graham", "
 I am not a baby boomer. It is not going to be worth the effort to make that distinction much longer, so let me say it one more time just for fun and to get it out of my system: I am not a baby boomer.
Baby boomers are that generation born when their fathers came home from World War II. Officially, the boomer generation begins in 1946 and ends in 1964. I was born in 1941, when the War was just beginning, but I will go to my grave being bunched with the baby boomers. No way to avoid it because boomers have pretty well defined the culture for the past 50 years, and for the next 30 or 40 years the phrase baby boomer will be synonymous with old.
There are so damned many of them - 78 million - that nobodys going to pay attention to the finer distinctions of a few birth years on one side of the generation or other. So like it or not, the world will see me forevermore as a baby boomer.
Baby boomers are not just a U.S. phenomenon. That pig-in-the-python generation exists throughout most of the industrialized world and our governments, national and local, and our social service agencies and our economists are wringing their hands lately about the graying of their populations. Even China, so concerned about overpopulation that in 1978, it imposed one-child-per-couple legislation, is now so equally concerned about the imminent increase in their over-60 population that they have loosened the one-baby rule - so far only in Shanghai, but other cities and the country will surely follow suit as the breadth of the problem becomes more evident.
In the short run, the population shift is good for us older folks. It wont be too long until the marketing professionals twig to the fact that we are a better bet to advertise to than younger folks now because we have more money. According to MarketWatch [free registration required], people older than 50 control about 60 percent of the wealth of U.S. So there will be more television shows aimed at us, and more Jack Nicholson/Diane Keaton-style romance movies and Ill predict that soon there will actually be fashionable apparel for people whose bodies are past the shape and size of adolescence. 
But in the long run  which isnt all that long from now - the experts say, our increasing numbers are a nightmare. Gen X and Gen Y are much smaller than the boomer generation. There will not be enough people to meet the employment needs of the economy and therefore not enough tax money to cover boomer entitlements. There will not be enough money for us to benefit from the astonishing medical advancements of the past century. There will be too few doctors, nurses, hospitals and care facilities to meet our needs as deterioration sets in.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know it wont be you. It will be all those other millions of boomers who will not be able to care entirely, or at all, for themselves. Because youre going to win the aging-well lottery, right?
Whether you win it or not, there is going to be, in the next decade or so, a backlash of some kind against aging boomers and the amount of resources we use, which is one of the reasons I will be talking here over the coming months about what I call responsible aging. Were going to need to do it differently from our parents and grandparents generations. We are going to need to do more for ourselves with less reliance on community and public services and more reliance on each other. We are going to need to reinvent how we get old. And we need to start doing this now.
Meanwhile, however, boomers are so certain they are not going to get old and needy that they are even refusing to be called grandma and grandpa as Ellen Warren of the Chicago Tribune points out about one of the sillier, new boomer attitudes.
Boomers are wrong, you know, about denying the inevitable. Yes, we are richer, better educated, healthier and probably smarter than previous generations and statistics tell us that we will live a lot longer than previous generations. But we are not the first immortals and debilities of aging bodies and brains will catch up with us.
I had a different point when I started writing this piece and had no intention of getting so serious today. See what can happen when you get interrupted too many times...
All in all, though, it has turned out to be not a bad introduction to the idea of responsible aging. More to come...
", "Baby boomers and responsible aging", '2004-05-25'),
(47, "patgrissom95@gmail.com", "pat grissom", "
 This Older Bloggers listing breaks my rule requiring an entry to be posted at least once a week, but I like the idea so much that well ignore that rule this time.
The title, Backward Rain, says Ron Horne who is recently retired, describes what he did for a living  irrigation contracting. What is so powerfully engaging about his Weblog is that he posts, side-by-side with his current entry, a backward look - an entry from his teen diaries written during the mid-1960s.
From 6 June 1968:
On Wednesday Robert Kennedy was shot and killed in Los AngelisI stayed up all Tuesday night and morning watching TV and before he died I even went to church to say a prayer. I seem to be the only one at school who has been effected in any way. Most people seem unconcerned
On the same page, in his most recent entry about his current life wherein home is a 40-acre piece of land east of San Diego, Ron tells us about the effort to install new water storage tanks in what appears from his photo to be a wild, lonely space that is cougar country, though he hasnt spotted one of the big cats yet:
I gotta admit that lately, when I go for my morning walk, I start to wonder if Im really alone. On our backpacking trip Catherine got into a tug-of-war with a bear over a sack of food. I had to use pepper spray to drive the thing off
A tug of war with a bear? That is a bit too much up-close-and-personal-with-nature for this urban lady who senses that the life of Ron and his wife Catherine is a tad more dangerous, particularly on an elemental level, than hers.
On 25 October 2003, Ron and Catherine had to evacuate their land racing against the encroachment of raging brush fires that came within three feet of destroying their home. It did take their outbuildings, and they have been repairing essential services since then. As dramatic as the story is, Ron didnt get around to describing the near-disaster on his Weblog until three months after the event.
He says writing is difficult for him and the words come slowly.
One of my teachers in college would return my papers with criticism about awkward sentence structure. She really hammered the point home though my writing is still awkward and self conscious and slow.
He is working, less frequently than weekly but not so infrequently, to overcome his reluctance to write because, he says, I want to remember myself. Such a lovely phrase and I wonder if that is not what many of us are up to with our Weblogs.
Reading Rons Sixties entries reminds me of my own teen self, and I believe the pairing of Rons 35-year-old analog Weblog with todays digital version in some magical way helps his readers remember themselves as much as it does so for Ron Horne. It is worth your time to stop by Backward Rain.
", "Backward Rain", '2004-05-26'),
(48, "annburack-weiss99@gmail.com", "ann burack-weiss", "
 If youre a diehard George Bush fan who believes anything less that 100 percent support of the president makes a person anti-American and probably treasonous, there are a lot of Weblogs that will enrage you. Leftie politics is a growth industry in the blogosphere and one of the best is skippy the bush kangaroo - all lower case, all the time, even to the point of removing caps from quotes  an annoyance that skippys sardonic wit and general indignation make mostly tolerable. 
skippy, a Los Angeles film and television actor who has done stand-up comedy in his life, started blogging in July 2002. His ongoing anti-Bush-administration screeds are unrelenting. They are also intelligent, funny, serious, wide-ranging and important. This recent entry caught my fancy:
in todays press conference, attorney general john ashcroft said to be on the lookout for potential al-qaeda operatives who are european-looking, in their late 20s or early thirties, traveling with families and speak english well. so if you see this man, let the authorities know immediately.
Without skippy, who has a lot more time on his hands than I do to read, I would be hopelessly behind the curve on the best political stuff in the blog world. In several posts a day, he updates whats being said in a vast number of other political blogs, quotes the best and links to others telling us why they piqued his interest. Not all antiBush all the time, skippy is just as likely to pick on the Democrats:
it occurred to me earlier this week, that is seems the republican party has leaders which are significantly more intelligent than its constituents, but that the reverse is true for the democatic party.
apparently the corporate scandals are giving the democrats a campaign issue. great. now if we can just find someone to give them a spine.
The media:
cbs and the new york times latest poll finds americans think president bush is overly influenced about big business. all skippy can say is, no way, next youll be saying the sky is blue! stop, please, stop!
A woman who opposes gay marriage:
chill out, mona. them homos aint after yer kids!
 
And sometimes he just passes on a funny idea hes had:

i think that when tom waits does his next album, he should call it for no man. then the album cover will say tom waits for no man.
Skippys self-promotion tends toward overkill. His blogroll links exhort those who havent linked back to him to do so hey, skippy  link to me, link to me and he posts at the bottom of his home page an endless list in a tiny font size of all referrers from the past five days. But you gotta love him anyway - he is smart, his eye and ear for stupidity are finely honed and his way with language is a delight.
Oh, yeah  and one more thing. I like his attitude toward age:
ok, kids, all together now, one, two three: the market is tanking again. yes, yes, i know this blog is beginning to sound like a broken record a metaphor understood only by people over 30.
If youre not reading skippy, youre missing some of the best leftie commentary online.
", "skippy the bush kangaroo", '2004-06-01'),
(49, "jo@joannahoward93@gmail.com", "jo@joanna howard", "
 When I was a little girl, my grandfathers wife, Bertha, refused to wear a hearing aid. She was deaf as a post and during family get-togethers, the irritating exchange frequently went something like this:
GRANDPA: and then when all the kids were gathered around the fire, my father
BERTHA: Whats that, Bob? What did you say?
GRANDPA louder: when all the kids were gathered around
BERTHA even louder: Speak up louder, Bob. I cant hear you.
GRANDPA even louder: I said, when all the kids were gathered around the fire
BERTHA shouting: Bob, I cant hear you.
GRANDPA with dismissive hand gesture: Aw, shit. Never mind.
My brother and I would titter over the use of that naughty word, but the group of us would then lapse into uncomfortable silence and before long, Mom and Dad would find a reason for us to leave early.
Although Im not making excuses for Bertha, hearing aids in those days were large, unattractive and there was the stigma of old age attached to wearing them. Now, that is about to change.
The Energizer company has hired 80s singer Pat Benatar to be the spokesperson for their hearing-aid batteries. Baby boomers are reaching an age when all that concert-going is catching up with them and the marketers are working on making hearing aids cool.
A good number of celebrities have spoken up about their hearing loss, most notably in recent times, Rush Limbaugh. President Reagan wore hearing aids during his tenure as president and Bill Clinton finally gave in to tiny, almost invisible hearing aids in 1997 while he was still in the White House.
A lot of musicians suffer from tinnitus, which can be a severe hearing impairment. Those admitting to it include Barbra Streisand, Sting, Cher, Eric Clapton and Late Night host, David Letterman. Phil Collins stopped touring because of his hearing loss.
Marketers are counting on celebrity endorsements such as Benatars, along with baby boomers sheer numbers, to make hearing aids as cool as wearing the right kind of eyeglasses. I have no doubt they will succeed.
Marketing can be cynical business which too frequently creates phony trends, but some of what they do, like this campaign, is actually useful. If this one had come along about 50 years ago, I might have learned a lot more family lore.
", "Hearing aids hit high note", '2004-06-02'),
(50, "davidmiller51@gmail.com", "david miller", "
 It is undoubtedly true that people are generally most comfortable with others of their own age group because there is more in common. Mothers exchange child-raising experiences. Young singles meet up in clubs. Older folks play tennis with contemporaries to equalize the competition.
In the U.S., we carry this to an extreme. Television programs and movies are aimed at and labeled for specific age demographics. There are hardly any fashionable womens clothes for people with bodies older than 16. Older folks are encouraged to move into retirement villages where only other older people live and in fact, some villagers go so far as to segregate themselves by prescribing when grandchildren may and may not visit. There arent a lot of places, pursuits or kinds of entertainment that encourage people of different age groups to spend time together.
A couple of volumes at least could be written on the age segregation we impose on ourselves, unnecessarily and to our disadvantage. But there is on the horizon a bright spot worth noticing in the mixing up of generations.
It seems that former CBS-TV Evening News anchor, Walter Cronkite, who was forced to retire in 1981 due to a corporate age policy which is no longer legal, may be appearing on MTV to report on or provide commentary during this years election campaign. The idea came up after 87-year-old Cronkite appeared with 26-year-old MTV News correspondent, Gideon Yago, on the youth networks voter registration campaign program, Choose or Lose: Work It, on 25 May which Im sorry I missed.
Both Cronkite and MTV News boss David Sirulnick now say theyre open to the idea of future assignments, writes Newsdays Verne Gay, including the possibility of an on-air role during the conventions and election night.
As Gay points out, the average MTV viewer is 22 years old and not born yet when Cronkite, known as the most trusted man in America during his news anchor years, retired. So it is a brave move, in terms of conventional wisdom and preserving ratings, to bring on this old man.
MTV can only be saluted for this experiment in generational inclusion. Cronkite brings a lifetime of experience reporting for newspapers, radio and television. He was there in person for events that MTV viewers have only read about in history books: World War II, the civil rights movement, the moon landings, Vietnam.
At least once, he participated in making history. It was after Cronkites unprecedented personal announcement on the Evening News that he believed America should get out of Vietnam that President Lyndon Johnson withdrew from the 1968 presidential race convinced, as he said, that if Ive lost Cronkite, Ive lost middle America.
It would be fascinating, dont you think, to watch Yago and Cronkite bring together their personal and professional perspectives which are 61 years apart in age covering the conventions and election night. It is a rare event for something like this to happen with such a wide age distribution, and it would be an excellent public step toward generational understanding.
If it comes about, I know which channel Ill be watching.
", "Mixing up the generations", '2004-06-03'),
(51, "usunder80@gmail.com", "usunder", "
 One of the best things about Freda is her understated sense of humor:
People find it hard to realize just how much paper and electronic mail the average minister has to deal with. It is not so bad if one keeps on top of it, but all too easily it piles up and seems a mountain. Jesus once said that faith could move mountains. Im not sure this was the kind of mountain he was thinking of.
Freda, who lives on the island of Seil population: 500 in Argyll on the western coast of Scotland, is a minister in the Church of Scotland. This involves a lot of island hopping on boats that she reports are frequently off-duty for one reason or another. On Christmas Day 2003:
Two services today [at] Luing and Seil with a fast boat in between. The ferry is on holiday. I do not know who is coming to collect me or deliver me back. Trust is a wonderful thing.
Although Fredas daily entries are short and rarely link elsewhere, they are filled over time with a strong sense of self, of place, of community and of a wry take on mankinds frequent follies. Recently, she was trying to buy a product to soothe her eyes and found more choices than she remembered from the past:
Optrex for everyday, Optrex for giving bright eyes, and Optrex for sore eyes. What if you want to use it everyday and have bright, soothes eyes that are not sore? Where will it lead next I wonder? Optrex for dogs and cats  probably already exists, or how about Optrex-at-sea or Optrex-for-the-over-fiftes? Sounds more like bright marketing than bright eyes.
Recently, Freda has been ordered by her physician to desist from preaching, or even talking at all, to ease some problems with her voice. In commenting on the lay reader who has been filling in for her at services, she spoke of the mans dog, Ruby.
I am told she enjoys being up front but is not too sure about being in the pulpit. Reminds of a time last year, when I looked down the church and saw her head peeking around the corner of a pew. We do get a nice class of congregation round here.
I enjoy Fredas Blog because of the window she gives me on a world so different from mine, for a gentle strength she has that feels like it comes from a good lifetime of experience with people, and for the fine, funny edge she puts on her observations. 


", "Freda's blog", '2004-06-07'),
(52, "arnie60@gmail.com", "arnie", "
 The main summer exhibit at the Arizona State University Art Museum in Tempe is titled When I Grow Up. Its goal is to break the stereotypes students and other people have about older folks.
College students dont even think about getting old and their own mortality, says Museum curator John Spiak, but the future is out there. Seniors really arent that different from the rest of us: they vote, they pay taxes, they pay rent, they live.
- ASU Web Devil, 1 June 2004
Five artists are featured in the exhibit, which opened on 22 May, whose works include video documentaries, photographic stories and comic books about older folks. One series by photographer Troy Aossey, titled Sun City West Jazzy Poms, documents a cheerleading team of grandmotherly types who are determinedly thumbing their noses at the limited expectations imposed on older folks.
For every Sun City West Jazzy Pom, says photographer Aossey, there are hundreds, or more likely thousands, of older people who because of societys pressure cannot do what the Sun City West Jazzy Poms do for us, defy aging by putting on the uniform and kicking away our outdated cultural attitudes toward the elderly.
Villa Capri 1998, a video produced by Vincent Goudreau, is the portrait of life inside a Los Angeles nursing home showing the stark reality of daily life and planned activities along with interviews with residents revealing what led them to spend the last part of their lives at the Villa Capri.
With existing taboos of aging and death, explains Mr. Goudreau, the work attempts to allow a space or an opportunity for the voices of those who have been culturally set aside.
You are likely to have heard of another of the artists, David Greenberger, and his work, The Duplex Planet, which began as a homemade magazine in 1979, and has continued in a variety of forms ever since: comics, musical compositions and performances, theater pieces and Greenbergers personal commentaries on National Public Radio.
I took a job as activities director at a nursing home in Boston, explains Greenberger. I had just completed a degree in fine arts as a painter. On the day that I first met the residents of the nursing home, I abandoned painting. That is to say, I discarded the brushes and canvas, not the underlying desire to see something in the world around me and then communicate it to others. In this unexpected setting I found my medium. I wanted others to know these people as I did.
From the start, my mission has been to offer a range of characters who are already old, so that we can get to know them as they are in the present, without celebrating or mourning who they were before. Since the elderly are already thought of by what they have in common - that theyre all old - I try to recast them as individuals.
David Greenberger has been doing that now for more than 25 years and he has succinctly put his finger on one of reasons I began this Weblog:
With most every important transition in our lives we draw on our observations of others who have made similar changes. In the universal experience of aging we are desperately short of meaningful guidance. The Duplex Planet offers some lessons and examples.
For anyone who lives near Tempe or can get there this summer, admission to the exhibit is free and runs until 11 September. The Museums Website has additional information about these artists and the other two who are included in the show.
", "Older folks: a summer exhibit", '2004-06-08'),
(53, "a.woodrow22@gmail.com", "a. woodrow", "
 This is such a good idea it seems impossible that it hasnt been adopted by every community in the country. Think about it: there are lots of abandoned dogs and cats languishing in humane societies unadopted because people generally want a puppy or kitten. There are also lots of older folks living alone, Why not put the two together?
Thats what Barbara Smith of Palm City on the east coast of Florida thought when she saw older animals spending months at the local humane society.
I would say, this is bad, Smith told tcpalm.com. There have to be people who would love to have a cat.
So Smith, with her friend Liz Villasurda, created Save Our Seniors:
The goal of the program is to find homes for senior animals  dogs and cats  with senior citizens, says Smith.
Purina subsidizes the adoption program so that fees are low: $20 for a cat; $35 for a dog.
Although some other communities in the U.S. have similar programs, Palm Citys is unique in that the humane society will take a pet back free of charge if the owner is hospitalized and return it when the owner has recovered. 
There are proven health benefits to owning a pet. 
It lowers your blood pressure, says Smiths partner Liz Villasurda. You have a purpose to get up in the morning. With a dog, it means you get out and walk a little, so overall your health improves.
It reduces stress, Smith adds. Its good for people who are depressed or lonely, especially with seniors who have lost a spouse or relative. Smith and Villasurda have found homes for pets with people who are as old as in their 80s.
Whats important about this story beyond the happy ending for older people and older pets is that it can be a template for solving other kinds of problems that when put together in this manner, solve themselves.
One that comes to mind is a Connecticut community that needs a new elementary school. It also needs a new senior center. Older folks outnumber younger ones in this community and they have blocked the school, and the senior center has not been built either. How about if they build the school and used it as a senior center in the afternoons when the kids have gone home, in the evenings and weekends? 
They would probably need to write a couple of new town regulations to make it happen, but when there is only so much money to go around, we need to be creative in finding solutions that benefit the largest number of people and to me, one of the biggest wastes in our country is single-use buildings that lie idle a majority of the time.
I think the women who started Save Our Seniors on onto something that has implications way beyond older pets and people. Can you think of two problems in your community - or even your family - that could be solved by putting them together in the manner of old dogs and old people in this Florida town?
", "Old people and old pets", '2004-06-09'),
(54, "ineskraft68@gmail.com", "ines kraft", "
 Given the topic of my Weblog, there is no way to ignore John Bailey - aka the old grey poet - particularly after I had read this entry about his father:
When I look in my mirror I can see him looking out. The same eyes. The same complexion. Hes there as a young man and as an old man, smiling, not saying much. I dont feel haunted by him. Its nice to be prompted to remember those days we were father and son. And theres nothing sad about it. Just a safe feeling that, after all, hes still around. Safe, and warm. Satisfactory.
My take is a bit different in a similar incident in regard to my mother, but we are thinking over the same kinds of things. 
Bailey, a 64-year old poet, photographer and former systems programmer who has recently left south Wales for a bungalow in Lincolnshire, is the proprietor of Journal of a Writing Man which is, without doubt, one of the earliest blogs. In his first entry, dated 5 July 1998, John introduces us to one of his two cats, Harry, and notes in regard to the new Weblog, I think I shall have a lot of fun with this. He has been doing so every since.
Pay attention when you read John Bailey. His blog is deceptively simple as he seemingly natters on about the cats, the garden, preparations for lunch with his long-time partner, Graham, or describes his daily medicine walk prescribed for his wonky heart. But while he is cataloguing those domestic doings, he reveals himself to be a sly and thoughtful observer of himself and of life in general. While sorting his desk in preparation for the move to Lincolnshire, Bailey pondered the possibility of burning his decades of journals, files, folders, poems and other writings:
Do I have a point here? Not really. Except possibly to observe that whereas an empty desk leads to empty thoughts a nice, comfortable jumble of paper is too full of useful ideas for emptiness ever to take hold.
Explore Johns older prose and poetry which is linked from the left rail of his Weblog, and dont miss the photo albums from 1998 and 1999 of him and his partner, of his cats and flowers and landscapes. His recent entries contain breathtaking close-ups of flowers in his new garden and of the occasional oddity found while exploring his new surroundings.
One of my guilty pleasures is peeking into other folks homes when I can and I am most grateful to John Bailey for the excellent photos of two of his homes, both furnished with the care and good taste you would expect from from reading him. I eagerly await photos of the new house.
", "Journal of a writing man", '2004-06-10'),
(55, "thaliafreamon72@gmail.com", "thalia freamon", "
 Howard Sherman of the Nuggets Weblog could have won my heart with nothing more than the John Updike quote he keeps posted near the bottom of his right rail:
The true New Yorker secretly believes that people living anywhere else have to be, in some sense, kidding.
I guess that makes us both true New Yorkers, and the reality is that Nuggets is informative, charming, a whole lot of fun and it is just what the title says it is  nuggets of Howards thoughts about anything that strikes his fancy. And since his fancy is a close match to mine, Nuggets has become a favorite.
Howard says he a keen observer of popular culture and he seems to be particularly struck by oddities going on in the world, the Web and New York. Also, for anyone who immediately buys into that Updike quote, Howard has a sensational collection of New York City links, some of which I knew and some which are new to me. A small sampling:

Forgotten New York
Gothamist
NYC Eats

And in the small world department, hes even got my friend Laura Holder linked.
Its always an interesting exercise to check out bloggers earliest posts. Howard started simply on 3 December 2002:
burrrr. Pretty chilly today in NYC. The kind of cold that cuts right through you.
I like that. No meandering around about starting a Weblog and wondering where its going and blah, blah, blah. Just the weather report.
In his second post, the next day, he made one of those dead-on associations of the James Burke/Connections type between The Osbournes, who were fairly new to television then, and The Loud Family from the 1970s on PBS. You need to be of certain age to remember the Louds, so if you dont know and are curious, there is some information at The Louds Website.
Nuggets is a tidy site that is easy on the eyes. The tag line in his top banner is Howard Shermans Random Thoughts on Technology and Life in New York City as if you care.
You can lose the parenthetical, Howard. You post a lot of good reasons to care.

", "Nuggets", '2004-06-14'),
(56, "helenw.johnson40@gmail.com", "helen w. johnson", "
 Did you know that the average length of time a doctor spends with a patient is eight minutes?
Did you know that every day more than 6,000 people hit their 65th birthdays?
Did you know that 25 percent of U.S. families are involved in the caretaking of a loved one?
The population of the U.S. and the world is rapidly graying. In the next decade or so, as the baby boom generation ages and the generation behind it is too small to provide all the health care needs the boomers will require, we older folks must take on more responsibility for our own health along with many other life requirements during our later years.
It is an idea I call Responsible Aging, and I touched on it in my introduction to the idea a couple of weeks ago. And now, right on cue it seems to me, the newly published Merck Manual of Health & Aging is an extraordinary aid to understanding and doing something for ourselves about our own aging.
It begins with an essay on an obvious and sometimes confusing question: When Does a Person Become Old? which introduces the idea of healthy aging, a subset of Responsible Aging.
Healthy aging refers to a postponement of or reduction in the undesired effect of aging. The goals of healthy aging are maintaining physical and mental health, avoiding disorders, and remaining active and independent.
The book contains clear, well-written, thorough explanations of more than 100 diseases, conditions and disorders that commonly afflict older folks, including reasonable mentions of non-traditional treatments.
But before the editors get to the encyclopedic list of medical conditions written in language any lay person can understand, there are 200 pages of extraordinarily important and interesting information about aging that I do not believe has been collected in one place elsewhere.
There are sections on how the body ages; the demographics of aging in the U.S. and worldwide and what that means to our health and to our healthcare systems. There is solid information on maintaining nutrition; on drugs and aging; on understanding medical tests, surgery and rehabilitation; long-term care and caregiving; and on how to navigate the difficulties of financing health care. Our bodies are changing as much, though differently, as they did during puberty and it is essential that we understand how and what that means to both daily life and any illnesses we encounter.
My short description here barely scratches the surface. There is a remarkable amount of good, hard information to have at your fingertips when need arises. Before that, or in between, Merck has also scattered throughout the book essays by older people on what its like to get older  a topic close to my heart as you can see from my banner above.
The Merck Manual of Health & Aging is a rich resource you will use for the rest of your life. If the price seems high and its a choice between some light reading for the summer and this book, go for the manual. Im sure youve got a friend wholl pass on a good, trashy beach novel or two.


", "Must-have book on health and aging", '2004-06-16'),
(57, "mirazjordan70@gmail.com", "miraz jordan", "
 A Weblog title like this, Pushing an Elephant Up the Stairs, can hardly be ignored. You just must click on it, right? And what you find is a simple and elegantly designed page by British blogger, Francesca Gray, who is writing an uncommonly  powerful journal of her struggle with depression.
There are encounters with her children who are as obtuse and distant as all teens teetering on the brink of adulthood. Ive wanted to smack the daughter myself more than once, but they seem to be basically good kids behaving like normal teens. 
Francesca doesnt always sleep well. She tells us of dark, late nights of the soul searching for online friends with whom to talk. You begin to understand why when you discover her companion Weblog, Diet Coke, which focuses exclusively on mental health issues.
Recently, she posted a five-part series, When the Darkness Won. It is a compelling account of her suicide attempt and hospitalization where she was tended to for several days by a remarkably useless set of professionals who could not would not? help in any meaningful way. It is some of the most powerful writing Ive ever read on the experience of depression from the inside. The terrible loneliness of it:
[I] wear my ok mask for the occasional visitor. No one unexpected so no one sees the beneath. No one looks too closely anyway. The mask becomes real.
And the terrible fear of its return after recovery:
Never again.

Until the next time.
Until the day I woke up to find myself once more peering through darkened glass.
", "Pushing an elephant up the stairs", '2004-06-17'),
(58, "maryknapp27@gmail.com", "mary knapp", "
 Because Crabby Old Lady has, in life and at this Weblog, a vested interest in anything about getting older, she takes the World Wide Web temperature on that topic now and again by Googling aging and other synonyms for not young. 
Going by the first page results today, Google believes the most important Websites about aging are those of government and quasi-government agencies with interchangeable names such as National Institute of Aging, National Council on Aging, American Society on Aging, Special Committee on Aging. These sites deliver official information about older people on financial matters, health, legislation, benefits, and empowering the community, whatever that means.
Crabby does not intend to deliberately bore you; only to give you a sample of what Google believes about older people: that we are sick, decrepit, money-grubbing, none-too-bright and  boring.
Which, unfortunately, matches fairly accurately the attitude of our culture at large toward older folks. 
Crabby Old Lady knows this is a lie. Undoubtedly those agency Websites have reasonably good information and are a starting point when you need it. Watch out, though, for those senators at the Special Committee on Aging which is essentially marketing information  spin, for their future re-election campaigns. But what Crabby wants to know is, where is information about what getting older is really like.
If you go by what the advertisers on the right rail of the Google results page believe about us, older folks can be suckered into buying any kind of snake oil that promises to turn us into teenagers again:
Can Aging be Reversed? The startling truth about aging and longevity.
Clear a Congestive Heart: fastest most effective method to clean blocked arteries
Botox Like Results: Clinically Proven! Order your Free Sample Now.
Healthy Aging: Slow Aging Now! Easy Exercises.
Free Anti-Aging Cream. free sample
All these sites sell bogus products or information. Crabby Old Lady is insulted by them and by the so-called professionals - experts on aging at those agencies - who, together, paint a picture of older people who will spend all the money they have on dreams of lost youth while drooling onto their bibs. This makes Crabby angry.
There is a lot more information about what getting older is really like at any of the Older Bloggers Websites, linked over here on the left, than at any of the Websites or advertisers on Google. 
By sharing their passions, their hobbies, interests, stories, concerns about the world near to their homes and afar, and knowledge collected over a lifetime, these bloggers  all older than 45 - tell us more about what aging is like than any of the experts at those anonymous-sounding agencies. Every day, they refute the phony anti-aging products in their thoughtfulness and intelligence. And they prove that being older is not worse than being young. It is only different.
", "Aging on the World Wide Web", '2004-06-21'),
(59, "rosemarywoodel56@gmail.com", "rosemary woodel", "

Full fathom five thy father lies;
Of his bones are coral made;
Those are pearls that were his eyes;
Nothing of him that doth fade
But doth suffer a sea change
Into something rich and strange.
 - The Tempest  Act II
", "Full Fathom Five", '2004-06-22'),
(60, "thea79@gmail.com", "thea", "
 NOTE: Some of you who come across this series will not like it. You will think it too morbid and that is fine. Ill leave it here so you can come back one day when you are ready for it. - RB

Today is the first day of the rest of your short, brutish existence as a sentient creature before being snuffed out into utter nothingness for all eternity.
 - The Simpsons creator, Matt Groening", "Meditation on Mortality: Part 1", '2004-06-24'),
(61, "niki48@gmail.com", "niki", "
 Today, Crabby Old Ladys complaint lies with the corporate manufacturers and purveyors of cosmetics.
There was a time, prehistoric to be sure, when Crabby and her contemporaries believed just the right shade of makeup, blusher, eye shadow, lipstick or the perfect combination thereof would render them irresistible to men. Many hours were spent experimenting with new colors and new application techniques, and when a member of the opposite sex did succumb to Crabby or one of her friends, some overly gullible portion of their brains believed it would not have happened without Luscious Mauve Raspberry No. 2. 
Crabby came to her senses a long time ago about the effectiveness of faultlessly applied facial cosmetics in attracting the opposite sex and in any event, she is no longer out there trolling for men though she is not numb to the idea. She just wants to tone down the blotchiness and age spots on her face so she feels presentable in public.
In a practical sense, this is not difficult. Foundation, a little powder, some subtlely tinted blusher and lip gloss would do the trick with little effort. What makes it nearly impossible, however, is that the cosmetics industry manufactures products entirely for teenagers intent on being noticed in a darkened nightclub.
Blusher now comes only with embedded sparklies. Eye shadow is available mostly in shades of iridescent turquoise. Mascara is made only in the jettest of jet black heavy with fibers for that wide-eyed Betty Boop look.
Take a glance at that last photo on the right up there in the banner. Now Crabby Old Lady asks you: Sparklies? Iridescence? Nuit Noir around the eyes? Crabby doesnt think so. At her age, less is more and after 45 or 50, all women are looking to minimize, not enhance.
But Max, Estee, Christian, Elizabeth, Helena, Germaine, Pierre and all the rest who served her so well in her youth have forsaken Crabby in her dotage. Where is the foundation that covers natures errors but doesnt cake in the lines? Eye shadow in matte colors of brown and gray without sparklies? Blusher and lip gloss that are brighter than Crabbys skin color, but not by much, and certainly not iridescent? 
They arent in any department, drug or cosmetic specialty store that Crabby patronizes where row upon row of Radical Red prevails. In case you cosmetic manufacturers and marketers out there dont believe there is profit in addressing an aging population, let Crabby enlighten you. In the U.S. alone:

There are 39 million female baby boomers, the youngest of whom turn 40 this year.
There are more than 56 million women older than 45.
Within five years, according to the Census Bureau, one-sixth of the population will be women age 50 and older.
", "Glitter and Gloss", '2004-06-28'),
(62, "rhoda25@gmail.com", "rhoda", "
 A Web designer who lives on Whidbey Island near Seattle, Gordon Coale was an early blogger. His one-sentence, first entry dated 10 August 2000: I blog, therefore I am, could be an epigram for many of us these days. Another of his earliest posts was about Harry Potter and anyone whos a fan of Harrys is fine by me. Coale also hosts an online radio show, Testing, Testing, which Ive not had time to listen to that showcases northwest U.S. musical talent.
This is an intensely political blog  leftie variety  and Gordon regularly discovers Websites and information that I dont find elsewhere or are too far afield for the time I can devote to surfing. In a recent post, he pointed to a timely piece about Britains 1917 occupation of Iraq that begins:
They came as liberators but were met by fierce resistance outside Baghdad. Humiliating treatment of prisoners and heavy-handed action in Najaf and Fallujah further alienated the local population. A planned handover of power proved unworkable.
Gordon is an invaluable political resource, but dont let his passion for politics fool you   there is plenty of other interesting material on this blog, particularly photography. He recently 21 June 2004 posted a picture of himself riding a skycycle, a bicycle taller than Id have the nerve to get on. And I spent about ten minutes examining a closeup he posted 16 June 2004 of the hand of Michaelangelos David, just the hand, which is so real-looking that I mistook marble for flesh until I read the caption  a reminder that I must get to Italy before I die to see such genius for myself.
Some other photographs on this site are really scanned objects with astonishingly beautiful results. Gordys Dinner, March 9, 2004, is vegetables as you have not seen them before. And his scanned Dead Bugs overcome even my girlie-girl attitude toward crawly things.
Another special section on Gordons site is the story and journals of his grandfather, Griff, who was a Navy combat artist in World War II. A fascinating piece of history.
Whimsy turns up on Gordons site too and I especially like the tribute to Ray Charles he re-posted:
Logical proof that Ray Charles is God:

1. God is love
2. Love is blind
3. Ray Charles is blind
Therefore: Ray Charles is God.", "Gordon.Coale", '2004-06-29'),
(63, "enidsefcovic35@gmail.com", "enid sefcovic", "
 No one can predict for sure if he or she will win the aging lottery. We all hope for the best, but there is no telling what afflictions fate will visit upon us nor at what age. What is predictable, however, is that for baby boomers and their senior elders, it is likely there will not be enough doctors, nurses and care facilities to go around when we need them. Heres why:
There are 78 million baby boomers in the U.S., the oldest of whom are just beginning to retire and the rest will follow year after year. Coming up behind them, born between 1965 and 1982, is Generation X of whom there are only 59 million, and logic suggests there will be proportionately fewer health care providers than now. There are many other hard-choice ramifications of this population shift to be addressed, but lets take the selfish one today: Who will care for you and me when we need it?
One good answer is: each other.
News stories about older single, divorced and widowed women joining forces to spend their old age together are appearing with increasing frequency, most recently at twincities.com [free registration required] via The New York Times. 
Given the looming age demographics, it is welcome news that interest in these alliances is gaining momentum and already mitigating the fears of women who are pioneering these new kinds of households. Writes Jane Gross:
Mary MacLellan, who spent down her retirement savings caring for her mother after she broke a hip, wondered, What in the name of God will become of me? But her worries eased when she and six other women in Nova Scotia, ages 50 to 68, began discussing living together.
We could all ease our worries by planning for this kind of living arrangement even before we need it. It is an aspect of what I call Responsible Aging. We can share the pleasures of growing older together while also taking charge of our own and one anothers well-being to the greatest extent possible, relying on what will be a heavily overburdened healthcare system for only the most urgent conditions.
This is not a new idea. Friends and acquaintances and I have been noodling it around in general conversation for two or three decades although our version includes men, unlike the women-only households being discussed in news pieces so far: 
Men do not seem to entertain comparable ideas, writes Ms. Gross. Dennis Kodner, executive director of the Brookdale Center on Aging, at Hunter College in New York, says all the men he knows expect that women will care for them. We dont really have those kinds of friendships, Kodner said.
If thats so, men are going to have to get used to the idea of shared responsibility, and I dont believe its necessary for housemates to have been life-long, intimate friends to succeed in a group household. I think you need similar sensibilities, mutual respect and a lot of room. Actress Bette Davis said many years ago that a marriage cant survive without separate bathrooms. I agree and Im pretty sure that applies in these new kinds of living arrangements too.
However it works - and many of the details and legalities are still to be invented - its a good thing to help remove a burden from the generation coming up behind us. And whether or not you win the aging lottery, it is also good not to be old and alone. 

", "Increasing Your Odds in the Aging Lottery", '2004-07-05'),
(64, "derek15@gmail.com", "derek", "
 There have been conflicting headlines this election year about the solvency of Social Security and although Crabby Old Lady hasl a few years until she is eligible, this development is making her   well, crabby. Here are the high points:
On 14 June, the U.S. Congressional Budget Office issued its first-ever assessment of the Social Security system and found it to be in better shape than the public has been led to believe. The trust fund, will not be depleted, according to the report, until 2052. 
The Social Security trustees, a different group of officials, came to a similar conclusion in March 2004, though they estimate the the trust fund will be exhausted a decade earlier, in 2042. Still plenty of time for tinkering to keep it going after that.
In February 2004, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan urged Congress to help reduce the astronomical budget deficit by reducing future Social Security benefits.
And back in January, Mr. Bush had this to say in his State of the Union address:
Younger workers should have the opportunity to build a nest egg by saving part of their Social Security taxes in a personal retirement account. We should make the Social Security system a source of ownership for the American people.

 - State of the Union Address, 20 January 2004 ", "The Impending Rape of Social Security", '2004-07-07'),
(65, "eileenmurray35@gmail.com", "eileen murray", "
 Teens and 20-somethings make up 92 percent of bloggers, or at least thats the estimate Perseus delivers in their recent survey of eight blogging services.
According to a related story in the San Jose Mercury News [free registration required] which I found via J.D. Lasica, blogs are a serious new addition to the teen social scene.
In many ways, what transpires online is an extension of the social interactions that take place at school, writes K. Oanh Ha. There are online cliques as well as the digital equivalent of hallway banter and gossip. Yet, what occurs online mostly lives in a digital reality that seldom crosses over into real life.
Most teens abide by an unwritten code of the blogosphere: What happens online stays online. Many have digital friendships with classmates but never socialize in real life because we dont hang with the same crowd.

 - The Mercury News, 5 July 2004
Teens today seem to have a whole new repertoire of exclusionary criteria that were unavailable when I was their age.
What the San Jose Mercury News piece ignores is the other end of the survey which reports that older folks [age 50 plus] make up only .7 percent of bloggers, or 32,400 of us. Broken down further to my personal age category, 60 and older, we are just .3 percent of bloggers or 13,900 of us. With stats like that, well soon all know each other.
Our numbers will grow as more older folks join the online world, as younger people grow into our age demographic and as blogging software gets easier to use. Meanwhile, it would be interesting to know now, among us Older Blogger pioneers, what it is we - as opposed to the teenage hordes - get out of blogging, what purposes we put it to and why we do it.
I am not looking for numbers in this very casual, completely unscientific survey. Instead, Im asking that you send me an email or leave a comment on this entry about how you use blogging. In a week or so, Ill see what trends or commonalities emerge  or not  and Ill post some of the most interesting answers.
Its not necessary, but it would add, I believe, to our understanding, if you include your age. Here are some questions - not necessarily to answer, though you may - to get you started thinking:

How did you discover blogging and why did you start?
Were you a proficient computer user when you began? How difficult was it to master the technology?
Is yours a journal, or do you write about a specific topic? How do you choose what you write about each day?
How much personal information do you reveal? Do you have rules for yourself about that?
Do your friends and family know about or take part in your blog? Do they read it and comment? Do you use your real name or an online alias? Are any of you secret bloggers who dont tell anyone who knows you?
Have you made new friends because of your blog?
How comfortable have you become with new friends you have made through your blog? Compare to offline, real-world friends.
How important to you is your blogging life? What does blogging give you that you dont get from other parts of your life? What does it take away?
Do you think blogging is here to stay?


I look forward to hearing from you.

", "Try the TGB Older Bloggers Survey", '2004-07-08'),
(66, "pamharms14@gmail.com", "pam harms", "
 Idly surfing around the blogosphere this afternoon, Crabby Old Lady came across a blog named The Two Hour Lunch of which Pops is the proprietor. He points with a good bit of righteous indignation to a story in The Seattle Times seeking applicants who want to blog in the newspaper about how the election campaign is going among folks in their community.
Know your community? Like to talk politics with your friends, colleagues and neighbors? Want an opportunity to blog about your observations? asks the paper.
Even Crabby, who has been known to disdain such cutesy-poo efforts at involving journalistic civilians, might go along given the crucial nature of the 2004 election and the generally abysmal job the mainstream media has done so far in raising the level of political discourse. Perhaps the civilians could do a better job at writing about the real concerns of the public, thought Crabby - that is, until she read the next bits in the story, and the reason for Pops indignation:
Were looking for contributors 35 and younger who are following the 04 campaignsTheres no pay involved; only a chance to make the voice of the community heard.
If this were a paying gig, that advertisement would be illegal under the federal ADEA Age Discrimination in Employment Act.
This is the kind of kneejerk, gratuitous ageism American culture engages in every day, and it sends Crabby Old Lady right around the bend.
What does The Seattle Times think  that people past age 35 dont know their communities? Dont talk politics? Maybe they think no one over 35 has any friends, colleagues or neighbors? 
And how old  or, rather, how young, do you have to be to run such a nasty, ageist news operation? 
Heres the executive editors email address in case you want to complain: mfancher@seattletimes.com. Crabby sent him a copy of this blog entry.

", "Ageism Hits as Young as 35 in Seattle", '2004-07-08'),
(67, "kathleenbayly36@gmail.com", "kathleen bayly", "
 It is a well-known phenomenon that as we get older time appears to move faster. What took ages to get here in childhood is done and gone now before we realize its on its way. Time flies too when youre having fun and when you are deeply engrossed. No one believes time really accelerates, but no one knows why it seems to do so either.

On a trip around the Web recently to see what the latest thinking on this phenomenon might be, explanations, both reasonable and crackpot, surfaced which Ive labeled as follows:
1.  Proportional Time: The most common reason advanced is that time is perceived as a proportion of time lived. That is, to a five-year-old, a year is 20 percent of his entire existence. To a 60 year-year-old, one year is it only 1.67 percent of his life.
2. Complex Time: Another well-worn theory is that as we get older, life gets busier and with more things to do, there is less downtime so life speeds by. This is a weaker argument as there are plenty of not-so-busy people who perceive time as moving faster than in youth.
3. Stupid Time: Its forgetfulness according to this theory. Memory weakens as the years pass and because we cant remember what we did yesterday, let alone last week or last month, time flies. Perhaps my mind has flown, but the logic of this one escapes me. 
4. Routine Time: This argument postulates that as we age, our time is taken up with increasing numbers of practiced pleasures and predictable tasks that provide little intellectual stimulation. If, instead, we spent our time in new pursuits, this argument suggests, time would slow down. This almost works because it blends nicely with my new theory on this phenomenon, Tense Time:
Time is perceived at different rates of speed depending on whether your mindset is primarily in the past, present or future tense.
Children generally are future tense types. They cant wait to be big enough to ride a bicycle or stay up later or go to the movies alone. Their anticipation of holidays, birthdays and summer vacations in addition to the constantly moving target of age-related privileges guarantees that each wait will feel like eternity. 
Young adults live mainly in the future tense too, looking forward anxiously to that promotion, finding the perfect wife or husband, affording a fancier car or bigger house. Even raising kids is on future time  vying for the best schools and saving for the right college. Time moves more slowly during the first half of life because we are anticipating the next thing we want rather than enjoying what is here and now.
To the contrary, older folks tend to live in the past tense, recalling triumphs and tragedies from their younger years, sometimes complaining about new-fangled ways of doing things and lamenting the loss of the good old days. I dont like admitting it, but even I, who prides herself on being oh so au courant on just about anything but popular music, have been known, for example, to complain about the alarming deterioration of education in the years since I was in school, and to wonder aloud more than once why the fad of boys wearing pants so low their butt cracks show has been around for an entire decade without waning.
Living in the past tense may speed up time perception because the anticipation of the new is missing. And so, I am suggesting that an ideal solution for everyone  the young who wish to increase the speed at which time passes and the old who want to slow it down - might be to adjust the tense in which we live to the present.
Or, this could be just another crackpot idea Im having.
NOTE: This theory is a close match to what some people call mindfulness. It has its origins in Buddhism, though no one is required to be an adherent to benefit, and it is worth looking into for its instruction into the rewards of living in the moment.
Mindfulness Practice Center 
A Guided Mindfulness Meditation 
Living With Mindfulness 

", "The Speed of Time", '2004-07-13'),
(68, "chase87@gmail.com", "chase", "
 Several years ago, Crabby Old Lady signed up for the New York State Do Not Call Registry. Thats the list that allows anyone, by registering, to remove themselves from receiving telemarketing calls. The local versions were so successful that the Federal Trade Commission launched a national registry a few years ago and Crabby signed up for that too.
It means that, on pain of severe monetary penalty, telemarketers may not call Crabby. The exceptions  you knew there are exceptions  are political organizations, charities, telephone surveys and companies with whom there is an existing business relationship. Keep that in mind as this story unfolds.
It is currently that time of year when the annual donations to some of Crabbys public interests are due. Because Crabbys employer last month - in the most recent fit of what has become a series of regularly-scheduled business realignments - fired Crabby and some of her colleagues, she had laid aside the appeals for her charitable renewals while she assesses her financial position.
Apparently she set them aside for too long.
Crabby has now learned that there is a short window of opportunity for such donations to be made following which solicitors take full advantage of the exceptions to the Do Not Call Registry. Worse, during the years in which she has enjoyed a respite from the daily onslaught of calls to purchase dubious merchandise of questionable utility, the charity hucksters have acquired the fast-talking skills of their commercial brethren.
Representatives from two of Crabby Old Ladys charitable donees recently made use of a nasty little tactic that in the past has contributed to the granting of the sobriquet by which Crabby is here known.
Having been interrupted, Crabby was only half listening once the caller identified himself as a stranger who wants money, and she made the mistake of agreeing when asked if the renewal mailing had been received. This acknowledgement turned the staid charitable representative into the scurvy, snake oil salesman he undoubtedly was before the Do Not Call Registry went into effect: Then Ill put you down for $50 more than last year. Heh, heh, heh. Arent I clever he thought as he twirled his mustache.
Crabby, whose attention was now fully engaged but hadnt a clue how much she had given that organization last year, snapped back with the venom the man deserved: Youll get what I give you if and when I feel like it.
A week or so ago, a sales person from the multimegacorp which supplies Crabbys home and mobile telephone services phoned with the offer of a new and improved calling plan. Crabby politely declined but like all good sleazebag marketers, this was a man who believes no is an opportunity. He insisted. Crabby affirmed her refusal. He pushed. Crabby pulled. He pressured. Crabby lost it. The last time one of you [expletive deleted] sold me a new calling plan, it cost me an additional ten dollars a month. So go [cheney] yourself and leave me alone.
Crabby sometimes wonders, when driven to such  uh, colorful  language, what the reaction of these solicitor punks would be if they could see the grandmotherly sort who is voicing it. 
But the more interesting question is what the multimegacorps believe they gain with such offensive tactics. Can it possibly be that they make more sales this way? Do they not know that Crabby, probably along with millions of other consumers, may not cancel their contracts now, but when the opportunity arises, will have no compunction about going over to a competitor? Or perhaps it doesnt matter since all the competitors practice the same sales tactics, so their customers will switch too when it is convenient to do so. If that is true, Crabby suspects the trade comes out about even, so it still makes no sense.
Crabby also wonders if these are among the tactics that fool old folks - the ones who may have lost a button or two - into buying a thousand dollars worth of magazines or a million dollars worth of life insurance that will never pay off.
As to the charities, their overbearing representatives have not, so far, prevented Crabby from sending her annual donations. But yesterday one of the tactics they have borrowed from the commercial solicitation world resurfaced in Crabbys life - another one destined to drive Crabby to a potty-mouthed rejoinder before long. 
CALLER: May I speak to Crabby Old Lady please?
CRABBY: Who is calling?
CALLER: Irritating Marketing Person.
CRABBY: And what organization are you with?
CALLER: My name is Irritating Marketing Person.
CRABBY: Yes, youve said that. What organization are you with.
CALLER: Let me tell you about our fight against
CRABBY: Mr. Person, Ive asked you what organization you are with.
CALLER: mumbling The ABCD. more clearly Mrs. Lady, we appreciate your recent donation. Im calling because there is an urgent need right now
CRABBY:  Goodbye.
What is the point, Crabby wants to know, in hiding the name of the organization? In this particular case, it was Crabbys first donation. There is unlikely now to be a second as once again, the world has forced her into the behavior that led to Crabbys characterization of herself.
NOTE: Exceptions notwithstanding, The Do Not Call Registry is outstandingly successful in reducing the number of telemarketing calls. If you have not registered, you can do so online at https://www.donotcall.gov/.
", "How Crabby Old Lady Got That Way", '2004-07-14'),
(69, "patricialike40@gmail.com", "patricia like", "
EDITORS NOTE: One readers response to The Speed of Time is so intriguing, I want to share it with you. Eric Antonow is president and CEO of Katabat, a real estate technology firm. In two of his other lives he is the father of a nine-month-old and he is a blogger with so many interests it takes eight or nine Weblogs to express them. d o c u m e n t is a good place to start. Here is Erics ingenious theory on the apparent increase in the speed of time as we age. He calls it The Caching Problem.
 For the sake of intellectual efficiency, our minds cache vast amounts of information for quick, later reference. Just as Web browsers store images of frequently and recently visited sites, the human brain stores parts of the world that we interact with everyday such as the shape of an eggplant, the golden retriever that belongs to our neighbor, our neighbors themselves. 

As a result, much of what we think of as experience is actually the act of accessing the cached data rather than processing the real-life visual or auditory or other experience. 
As there are fewer experiences, over time, involving new data and an increased number using cached data, the world seems to move faster because we are processing old data for the second, fiftieth, hundredth time so it really is faster. And because there is a fundamentally different experience in seeing something for the first time and seeing it again, in one sense, we do not experience cached data, we merely process it.
To explain it another way, think of the computer again. If we access an image locally the cache in our minds, it is pretty much guaranteed to be exactly what we saw before yawn. If we have to go out to the network ah, the world to get the information, there is the chance the world may surprise us with something different. 
Metal and silicon computers use the cached data only when it is exactly the same as the current reference. Humans, however, are much less strict. We are willing to replace even modestly similar experiences with a cached reference. This is a separate abstracting function in our mind: this golden retriever is close enough to the last one I saw that I dont have to see it again. It could be a very different animal  a temperamental golden lab, for instance - but a person still sees that other referenced benevolent dog.
A digression: as my nine-month-old son is learning what a book is, he uses what seems to be a parallel process in learning the abstraction that his Very Hungry Caterpillar and my Incomplete Education are both books.
To summarize: time seems to accelerate as we get older because:

We tend to increasing refer to cached data because that cache seems increasing to encompasses our experience.
We tend to access cached data in cases where it is not an exact match with current experience a false assumption.
The process snowballs as we gain a sort of self-righteous confidence that the world is what it is the grumpy old man problem, and our ennui makes us lazy. Our mind-set biases us towards dipping into the cache versus dipping into the world.

If you accept this theory, the answer to slowing down time would seem to be to find creative ways to clear the cache. My modest experience has been that travel can do this. That is, if you go to a very different place and experience it as it is, then you can return to the your world and experience things fresh again. A month in rural India or Morocco or, for most of us, The Bronx should do the trick.
If travel is not available, there are more commonplace rituals we can use to clear our personal caches. Meditation and other methods of mindfulness may be a route.
It could be that one of our worst difficulties occurs interacting with other people. It probably accelerates the caching Point 1; increases the false assumption rate Point 2; and definitely exacerbates our belief in grandiose assumptions that we know what all people are like Point 3. I havent really thought too much about this last part, but I have a gut sense this is true. 

Lastly, I keep thinking of this Thomas Hardy quote from Tess of the dUrbervilles: 
Experience is as to intensity and not as to duration.
I think thats really the crux. Experience in time is not really related to time per se but to intensity of the experience. And the level of intensity depends on how intimately or powerfully or emotionally we are interacting with the world versus our cache.

", "The Speed of Time: Cache Time", '2004-07-15'),
(70, "vecchiojohn45@gmail.com", "vecchiojohn", "
 The subtitle of this Weblog, as you can see on the banner, is: What its really like to get older. The intent is, over time and from differing angles and points of view, to shine a bright, clear light on what has been a public secret for as long as Ive been alive. 

For years I have tried to find good writing on growing old. I wanted to know what would happen to me physically, intellectually, socially, and in general, what to expect in my later years. But I could find nothing that was not insulting, sentimental or just plain silly. Realizing, after a time of searching, that the writing does not exist was the genesis of timegoesby.net: if no one else would write about getting old, then I would do it myself.
That is not to say there is no writing at all on aging. There are thousands of books on aging  exactly, as I write this, 60,096 at amazon.com. A large number of them have the phrase anti-aging in the title, about which Crabby Old Lady will have something to say in the not too distant future.
Meanwhile, there are a small number of books that soar in regard to understanding what its like to get older and you should know about them. Herewith then is the inaugural TGB Book List which contains the best, and only the best of the lot. It will reside permanently on the left rail of the blog, and will be added to only when excellence dictates. Here are the first four.
The Last Gift of Time: Life Beyond Sixty
By Carolyn G. Heilbrun
Part of the brilliance of this book is that it is not about getting older, it is about being older. From the scholar, feminist essayist and author of the Kate Fansler mystery series under the pseudonym Amanda Cross, The Last Gift of Time is filled with wisdom and reflections that can be used to illuminate ones own passage into older age. Again and again, she speaks of the kinds of insights I had been seeking for so long:
The greatest oddity of ones sixties is that, if one dances for joy, one always supposes it is for the last time. Yet this supposition provides the rarest and most exquisite flavor to ones later years. The piercing sense of last time adds intensity, while the possibility of again is never quite effaced.
The Summer of a Dormouse: Another Part of Life
By John Mortimer
Former barrister, playwright, screenwriter and novelist, John Mortimer is best-known in the U.S. as the author of the books on which the BBC-TV series, Rumpole of the Bailey is based. The Summer of a Dormouse is the third volume of his autobiography/memoir. Sometimes, when I want a good laugh about growing old, I pull out this book and read the first two paragraphs:
The time will come in your life, it will almost certainly come, when the voice of God will thunder at you from a cloud. From this day forth thou shalt not be able to put on thine own socks.
To the young, to the middle-aged, even, this may seem a remote and improbable accident that only happens to other people. It has to be said, however, that the day will most probably dawn when your pale foot will wander through the air, incapable of hitting he narrow opening of a suspended sock. Those fortunate enough to live with families will call out for help. The situation is, in minor ways, humiliating and comical.
Still Here: Embracing Aging, Changing, and Dying
By Ram Dass
The man who taught some of us thirty-odd years ago how to Be Here Now is back to show us how getting older is another opportunity for spiritual growth and understanding. As always, in his patience, humor, humanity, clarity and lovingkindness, Ram Dass is just far enough ahead of the rest of us in the journey to be able to show us the way.
heres the paradox, the secret of spiritual practice is that our limits may become our strengths if we learn to work with them skillfully. Similarly, as our bodies slow down, we can use this change to increase our mindfulness.
The Merck Manual of Health & Aging
By Mark H. Beers, M.D. [Editor]
I have reviewed this medical reference before and it only gets better with use. The writing is clear and easily understandable by a layman. It is informative, useful and places a good, strong emphasis on prevention.
Pessimists might see an effort to prevent health problems in older people as an attempt to close the barn door after the horse is already out. These pessimists think preventive measures pointless once a person has reached old age. Although beginning at an early age is best, it is probably never too late to start on the road to prevention.
There are other books on getting older that are good, better and a few excellent. The best of those will be added in time, but slowly, with careful consideration.

", "The TGB Book List", '2004-07-19'),
(71, "brucecoopoer91@gmail.com", "bruce coopoer", "
 The biggest surprise from the Older Bloggers Survey is the age of the respondents. It is a surprise for several reasons: this was labeled an Older Bloggers survey. We live in a culture that deliberately hides and ignores older folks. And this timegoesby.net Weblog is openly, blatantly, intentionally about getting older.

Nevertheless, 40 percent of survey respondents are younger than 45.
This is not a complaint. It is most gratifying to have an intergenerational audience. In fact, that was a goal from the launch of this blog, though not one I have yet put much attention to accomplishing except for the description of timegoesby.net used in Web directories:
Age is the one minority we all, with luck, will join so it behooves us to find out what it is really like.
As agreeable as it is to have a wide age range of readers, it also means the survey, purposely unscientific to begin with, is not about older bloggers now. It is about bloggers of all ages who responded to the survey. But, it is more interesting than originally planned, I believe, for the comparisons.
Personal Information
Answers were about evenly divided between little and unconcerned as to how much personal information to reveal. Slightly more than half use their real given names. One uses an alias to avoid tipping her employer to her political opinions. Two responses help show that there may be more common ground among generations than is commonly thought:
I dont have difficulty or any reticence about revealing anything I have experienced. I have no rules about what to post or not to post. I let the moment guide me. [Thomas, 61] 
I dont worry too much about revealing personal information, but generally I dont go out of my way to do so. [Laura, 20-something] 
Computer Proficiency
Several older bloggers began using computers before there were PCs and now, thanks to the simplicity of Weblog services, creating and maintaining a Weblog something almost anyone can do. Still, computers and the Internet can be confusing for some older folks:
I had my first taste of computers in 1959, in the Air Force using them to control long-range radar a flop, by the way. The need to use a computer did not resurface until 1999. I still have not come close to catching up. [Byron, 63]
I watched a 70-year-old man learn to use the computer and become completely addicted. Even so, when I said I would email him, he still insisted, I need to turn on the computer first, wait! [Sylvia, 36] 
Younger folks may take to the technology of computers and the Internet more easily than some older people, but one older blogger made this age distinction:
I am always thrilled to find older people blogging since they write well on a variety of topics and can also spell. I also admire the younger ones ability to design an interesting, beautiful-looking blog even if what they post is only about their friends and school life. [Carol, 56] 
To be fair, I believe, we should note that older bloggers often write only about their friends and work lives too. If older writers are more interesting, perhaps it has to do with accumulated years of experience. The kids will catch up.
Online Friendships
It surprised me that so many believe online friendships are as strong, or nearly so, as their real-world counterparts. They are less comfortable, says GT [age unknown], but only a little.
Theyre not on the level of people Ive known in the real world for years longer, but theyre pretty dear friends. [Laura, 20-something] 
Like real-world friends, sometimes you just find a commonality or kindred spirit that has the feeling of a longtime friendship. [Cowtown Pattie, 50] 
Ah yup, a few, including you [Thomas, 61] 
Personal Importance and Rewards
For every respondent, blogging has been weaved into daily life, sometimes at the expense of other interests, but the pleasures are a powerful attraction to continue.
A means of expressing my passion for the philosophy of gadgets and light science is what led me to blogging. I have another urge thats driving me: Im sick of conforming; Im really having issues with doing what is expected of me. The freedom of expression that is at the centre of blogging, the downright, bare-faced irony and thirty-something cheek that shines out from so many blogs also attracts me. [Jason, 35] 
It gives a lot back. Strong friendships with multiple people I would not easily maintain contact with otherwise. [Laura, 20-something]
Very [important]. Any further opportunity for self-expression, to play with different parts of my personality. Sometimes I wonder what other activities I could be doing with the time I use blogging. [Thomas, 61]
My blogging has become a very important, almost obsessive new creative activity for me. It does take time away from other things, so sometimes there are conflicts of time management. [Marja-Leena, 50-something] 
One respondent, Sylvia, is an online friend from fotolog.net, a sort-of reverse Weblog in which photographs take center stage with text as the accompaniment. A few people  Sylvia and I are examples  have adapted fotolog into a hybrid Weblog/fotolog as she explains:
Its a nice outlet for my short stories. Losing that would hurt most, I think. But I also enjoy the community and the bouncing off each other and, for fotolog, the varied imagery from other people. For whatever reason, it works better for me than a text-based forum like LiveJournal. [Sylvia, 35] 
Blogging is Here to Stay
Its fascinating, addictive and ego-building, the easiest vanity publishing there has ever been, and all who responded agree - its not going anywhere anytime soon.
Are you kidding. People love to tell others what they think and its so easy to do now. Theres always going to be opinionated schnooks like me to do this sort of thing. [GT, age unknown]
Lets be honest. Lots of people love to write, love to express themselves, love to think others are watching. We can go out there and read and connect with peoplewe might otherwise never have encountered. [Laura, 20-something]
as long as online access is relatively inexpensive. [Thomas, 61]
Yes, without a doubt. Indeed, I am confident we shall all be talked about as the blogging generation, the pioneers of text-based form of expressions that defined the turn of the new millennium. [Jason, 35] 
And as one of timegoesby.nets youngest readers put it:
No matter how far apart you go,
your keyboards will keep you together,
and in your heart you will know
you dont need a face to be a true friend forever.
So, How do you explain this to people
whove never been online?
I guess it takes a gesture of friendship
& a little bit of time.
[SV, 20-something]

", "The Older Bloggers Survey Results", '2004-07-20'),
(72, "bonnieschroeder81@gmail.com", "bonnie schroeder", "
 If Cowtown Pattie, the proprietor  or as she prefers, the trailboss  of Texas Trifles werent so obviously one of the funniest and smartest bloggers on the Web, she would have captured me anyway with this headline alone:
Spit Out That Fry! Drop And Give Me Ten, Fatboy!
Such a great Texas kind of line and the rant that followed, on the low carb diet fad, ends with an aria in praise of carbohydrates that will send you straight out to the produce market:
Wake up, children, and look around you. Mother Nature is at her best in the summertime: plump, ripe tomatoes are pulling at their vines; juicy red watermelons all afloat in ice water just waiting for your thump; sweet, fragrant peaches softly fuzzed; fresh new potatoes smelling faintly of the farm field dirt.
I dont know what Cowtown Pattie, who recently turned 50, looks like, but her writing voice takes me straight back to those sometimes intimidating, always entertaining Texas beauties I learned to love and respect when I lived in Houston many years ago. They were all seven feet tall, slim with extra long legs, big hair and best of all, filled with attitude, sass and smarts - like Pattie. It would not be too hard on a clear, Texas, night to sit a spell with her:
Absolutely gorgeous weather this week. Sat in my favorite rocker on my patio last evening, put on a Billy Joel album yes I still have a turntable which we use when out on our covered patio in the backyard, poured a frosted mug of Corona with lime and salt and watched the doves come into feed at the birdfeeder with sunflower seeds. 
Although she breaks it up with recipes for peach lemonade and paeans to the blessings of bacon grease and 60s rock-and-roll, Pattie is an informed political commentator, particularly on environmental issues and I like her Texas-style directness that leaves no doubt as to her point. Recently she was ticked off about a new highway that will cut through the Big Lonesome country of far west Texas:
Texas has miles and miles of isolated, pristine desert countryside. It is one of the last bastions of No Mans Land, and deserves preservation and protection. Burns my butt to think of it going to trash all for a few million more plastic glasses painted with pink flamingoes and palm trees. Garbage, pure dee junk.
Her righteous anger is contagious and just when shes got you, the reader, ready to fire off protests and complaints to the powers that be, shell turn right around the next day and go all sentimental on you. Heres Patties online announcement of her recent third wedding:
For over a year we have been committed to one another, and for various reasons, never saw the immediate need of becoming legal. But you know what? No matter how special your relationship, no matter how close you are, nothing compares to hearing those age-old words spoken from the heart and given with earnest promise. Kman who still does not like that moniker is a gentle giant of man with a kind heart and strong values. He is truly my King Arthur on a white steed, but most of all, he is my best friend.
I think mostly Pattie cant resist telling a good story, and she is just so dang Texas good at it. One of her all-time great posts is The Great Texas Buzzard Massacre which is not to be missed. I dont want to give it away, you should read it for yourself. But heres a snippet to get you started:
Road kill. Buzzard buffet on the backroad. Between Glen Rose and Hico, I began to notice ominous flocks of turkey buzzards roosting in the last of winters bare-limbed trees. Now, some fancy bird watchers - ornithologists - would say the correct term for this graceful, soaring bird is a vulture. To that I would answer, you can put your boots in the oven, but that dont make them biscuits.
Now click that link and go read the whole thing because its gonna be the best laugh you have all day.
", "Texas Trifles", '2004-07-21'),
(73, "marymcphee14@gmail.com", "mary mcphee", "
 Crabby Old Lady and Ronni Bennett need a couple of days off from writing to catch up with some personal business. Meanwhile, they will rerun a couple of golden oldies from TGB, but today is the weekly posting of Don Murrays Now and Then column in the Boston Globe. You should read it. You should read it every week. Here is last weeks Time Goes By story about Don Murray:

Thanks to Jill Fallon, whose Legacy Matters Weblog you should make a regular stop, Crabby has discovered 80-year old Boston Globe columnist, Donald Murray. His weekly column Now and Then, published on Tuesdays, addresses precisely what Crabbys alter ego means with her banner tagline, what its really like to get older. Recently, Murray wrote of coping, after 53 years of marriage, with his wifes Parkinsons disease:
In trying to adjust to a marriage of daily visits, I have learned many things about Minnie Mae and myself. We do not have to speak but only touch to communicate. When she can speak, we often meet in memories recalled, in familiar expressions, in her quick wit that suddenly flashes out of her unfamiliar passivity.
In another column, after noting some of the technological advances during his 80 years, Murray concludes:
I am struck, however, that for all the convenience, how essentially unimportant these improvements have been for a man. The homemakers lot is far different and yet, even there, life is about birth and death, sickness and health, caring and the end of caring - not a microwave.
In the past, the Globe has allowed the most recent four of Murrays columns to be available online without a paid subscription. Crabby noticed this week, that it has been reduced to three, but if you bookmark his page, you can easily keep up with what Crabby Old Lady believes is the best regularly-scheduled writing she knows of on the reality of getting older.
", "Don Murray's 'Now and Then' Column", '2004-07-27'),
(74, "est41@gmail.com", "est", "
EDITORS NOTE: While Crabby Old Lady and Ronni Bennett take a couple of days off, they are posting favorite repeats. This is the first entry on Time Goes By originally dated 27 September 2003.
 I posted this on my fotolog today about turning 40:
I had hardly noticed 30; 40 was the one that horrified me. I spent my entire 39th year boring friends with unfunny jokes about my fear of this impending black day. Then I read the card from Jim that accompanied the 40 perfect tulips I found on my office desk that morning. The card, which is part of the fotolog image, read, See how lovely 40 can be?
And Yolima asked, How does 40 compare in retrospect?
Looking back, I got sucked in by cultural attitudes about hitting 40, and I should not have.
One of the things thats nice about getting older is that Ive experienced enough not to be afraid very often anymore. I like that; I like knowing how to handle pretty much anything that comes along. I also like knowing that there arent many decisions, beyond putting a gun to your head, that are irrevocable, and that saves a lot of dithering.
There are things too that I dont need to do anymore. I long ago proved to myself that nothing much happens past midnight except people get drunker and more boring, so I may as well go home early and get a good nights sleep.
Time was I believed I needed to listen to all the latest music. But popular music really was better from the 1930s through the 1960s, so I havent missed anything much worth hearing since I gave up music radio about 25 years ago. And when it is any good, it bubbles up enough that even I become aware of it.
A paradox of getting older is that as I have less time on earth, I dont feel so rushed. If there is something better to do today, I can clean house tomorrow; the dirt will wait for me. If I dont get to the movie when its in theaters, I can rent the DVD later.
In the US, the biggest problem with getting older is that the culture does everything possible to force us to deny aging, or at the very least to not inflict it on the young. Television and magazines are awash in commercials for wrinkle creams, sexual aids and arthritis treatments. Older people are portrayed in TV and movies as mostly dotty old fools and that irritates me. Age discrimination in the workplace is rampant, and you have not lived until a 25-year old vice president asks in an interview, And what are your life goals, dear? American culture is pretty much entirely designed for the under-40 crowd, but thats a rant for another time.
On my birthday each year, I set aside a little time alone to take stock, see where Ive been in the past year and where I think I might be going in the next. Always, I have learned new things, grown in some small ways, and am generally more comfortable in my skin than I was the year before.
Best of all, Ive lost my concern with what I look like. If there were any remnants of that, my fotolog has erased them. As I look back on the old photos to prepare them for the flog, I can remember disliking this photograph, thinking I looked ugly in that one. Now I rather like what I looked like then and only regret that I wasted so much time lamenting that I was not one of the great beauties of the world. I looked just fine  and I still do.
So, Yolima, although I didnt recognize it then, 40 was pretty good, and 62 is even better. 

", "40 Versus 62: Repeat", '2004-07-28'),
(75, "sallymacy70@gmail.com", "sally macy", "
 Because I was thinking a week or so ago about looking grandmotherish, its a good time to mention my theory of the grandmother gene.
When I was in high school in the mid-1950s, it was more common for girl graduates to get married and have babies than go to college. Some even dropped out a year or two early to get married and if they werent pregnant within a few months of the wedding, there was some heavy explaining to do to parents and in-laws. 
A large number of the girls I knew in high school had a serious jones for babies. But that urgency never touched me in the same way. There was so much to know about the world, so many places to go, things to see, people to meet, books to read and I knew a husband and baby would hinder those quests.
When I did marry seven years later, I wanted some time to work out the relationship, find out what sharing a life, forever, was all about before I brought another person - one who would need full-time attention - into the mix.
When it turned out that forever lasts only six years, I was relieved to be divorcing sans a child or two. It was hard enough to start over while confronting all my own conflicts without having to juggle the emotional well-being of kids too. I was 31 years old and I believed I had a long time before I needed to face the imperatives of my biological clock. Plus, the mommy thing still wasnt registering strongly. 
As my life crept toward 40, however, I had to take the baby matter seriously once and for all. After a year of private struggle to-and-fro-ing the issue, I decided against it. There was no one on the near-horizon I wanted to marry and I dismissed the idea of becoming a single mother because I believe, whatever might happen to a relationship later, its a good idea to give a kid a shot at both parents up front. And I still wasnt hearing the siren call of motherhood.
Perhaps the biggest reason for the postponement of babies and my final, late 30s decision was that I didnt much like kids. Theyre loud, expensive, tend to get the sticky kind of dirty and they want you to pay attention - all the time. I was way too focused on me, I believed, to be much good at that and whats the point of having babies if youre not going to give it your best effort. I would not feel unfulfilled without a child, I decided, and having settled the issue I moved on without a backward glance.
I have never lamented that decision. I have no doubts that it was the right one for me and I still feel pretty much the same way about kids in general except for the unexpected eruption, about ten years ago, of what Ive come to think of as the grandmother gene.
Does this happen to every woman? Are we programmed for this even if we skip motherhood? Geez. I spent all my adult life diligently avoiding my friends children. I sent gifts. I showed up for christenings and the earliest birthday parties that are for the grownups anyway. I sent money at bar mitzvah time. But baby sit? Not a chance. When I gave parties, the invitations stipulated no children.
Then out of nowhere about a decade ago, I found myself going all gooey when I saw a mother in the street pushing a pram. Id be rushing off to a meeting or a dinner with friends or just neighborhood shopping on Saturday, and when an infant turned up in my view, Id get all soggy at how cute the kid was. Since this about-face, Ive discovered all babies are cute and now Ive even got what I consider a couple of kid friends. One almost-three-year-old in particular, Sophie, is my kind of kid.
Im still not sorry I didnt have children. Had I done so, I would have been a decent mother because I was born responsible and I take my obligations seriously. But I would have missed a lot of other things I have done in life and I suspect I would be sorry now about that. We choose different paths, each of us, and I am happy with mine...
...which is why I cant figure out how this grandmother gene kicked in.
", "The grandmother gene: Repeat", '2004-07-29'),
(76, "royceshook75@gmail.com", "royce shook", "
EDITORS NOTE: Part 1 of A Mothers Final Best Lesson has been posted in the Transitions section of womansage.com, a fairly new non-profit organization dedicated to empowering, educating and fostering mentoring relationships among midlife women. I would like to thank its founder, Jane Glenn Haas, who is also a columnist for the Orange County Register, and urge you to visit the womansage Website.
 Ive been trying to write this entry for weeks, but every time I try, I forget what I wanted to say...bada boom.
After about age 50, they tell us, memory becomes an issue. It is fraught with fear because Alzheimers disease gets a lot of publicity so every time reading glasses are misplaced, worries sneak in about whether this is the beginning of the end of ones mind.
Thats no small concern. Although some studies show that one-third of people in their mid-eighties will develop Alzheimers, most minor memory lapses are not Alzheimers. As Linda Hurst, writing in the Toronto Star explains:
Its called benign senescent forgetfulfulness or AAMI, age-associated memory impairment, and it is not, like Alzheimers, a disease that kills brain cells. Its merely a consequence of aging. It happens in varying degrees, to everyone.

 - Toronto Star, 31 July 2004", "Aging Memories", '2004-08-02'),
(77, "maryannlehrer-plansky77@gmail.com", "mary ann lehrer-plansky", "
EDITORS NOTE: If its Tuesday, it must mean 80-year old Donald Murrays column is out in the Boston Globe, and today he is writing about the oddities of aging. Its a lesson we can all benefit from about being who you are at any age.
 The tagline on My Moms Blog is Thoroughly Modern Millie and she will be 79 years old later this month. Millie Garfield is billed as the Internets oldest blogger and what I like best about My Moms Blog is that while Millie covers a wide variety of topics  from movies to Mah Jongg to politics to dieting and even a little marriage counseling - she also tells us what its like to be her age.
Just last Sunday she let Nescafe have a piece of her mind about their anti-old folks packaging:
The customer service person told me that I had to put the container on the counter and with two thumbs press down and then open the lid! How do they expect a 78-year-old lady who has poor eyesight and arthritis to do that!
Go get em, Millie.
Shes got nearly eight decades of experience and a lifetime of stories to tell. Not long ago, Millie noticed it was time to renew a car sticker:
Fortunately there was no line so I decided to take care of it then and there. The only problem was the station only takes cash and I did not have $29.00 in my wallet BUT I have a lifesaver in the trunk of my car.
Let me explain. My husband Aaron, who has been gone now for 10 years, always kept a spare $20.00 bill in the trunk of the car and I have continued to do the same. It has helped me many times.
Thank you, Aaron.
There is a strong sense from Millies blog that she and Aaron had a long and happy marriage. Perhaps one reason is a bit of advice Millie quotes from Donald Murrays Boston Globe column:
Theres a lot of talk advocating communication in marriage among those generations pounding along behind us, writes Millie. When they catch up, theyll look back and realize the secret of a long marriage lies in what has not been said.
Millies son, Steve Garfield, is one of the more ubiquitous bloggers around the Web who is recently an early adopter of video blogging. Is it six Websites hes got, or did I count seven? Steve set up his moms blog for her in October 2003 and before long, he didnt need to do the posting for her any longer.
Yesterday attended an Internet Class, she reports. I know a little and want to know a lot more. Well, what I learned yesterday was the background of the very young substitute teacher. She did not ask us where we were coming from, what we knew, what we were interested in learning. She did not know the answers to some of our questions and could not get the screen positioned so that we could see what she was doing!
Stop by My Moms Blog. Millies doing just fine without a badly taught Internet class.

", "My Mom's Blog", '2004-08-03'),
(78, "brucewcooper81@gmail.com", "bruce w cooper", "
 A year ago today, I took up personal publishing on the Web. I had bought a scanner to preserve old family photographs that had been mouldering in boxes and envelopes for decades. When I took several to work to consult with some of our brilliant and talented graphic artists on how best to improve or restore the photos electronically, my young friend, Aaron Wertheim, insisted I start a fotolog as some of our colleagues had done.
And he kept insisting for several weeks, saying that the photos are history. Aaron particularly liked this one of my great Aunt Edith and this one of my Dad and this one of me when I produced radio shows.  
And so on this date a year ago, I began my fotolog timeline with this photo and mini-story. 
Because fotolog.net is a Website meant for sharing images  a photolog, not a Weblog  I set rules for myself about the captions:

They could be no longer than six lines.
They must be more interesting that just names, date and location.
They must tell a story with a beginning, middle and an end.
They should say something that is of interest to people who are not family.

There may have been a couple of other rules, but these are close enough to the original list and for the most part, I met those requirements. The response from people who viewed my fotolog was gratifying and encouraging. Several people flattered me by creating similar timelines of their own.
Without the fotolog, I am unlikely to have finished scanning and restoring the photos and I certainly would never have gathered the stories together.
When the fotolog caught up with the present, I was at a loss as to how to continue. I am not a natural photographer. I dont take the camera with me often; I even forget at parties and on vacations. And I have little talent for it. Words are my medium.
I have continued at fotolog with tours of my neighborhood there are links on the right rail if you are interested, but more important to me is that it led directly to launching this Weblog where I can use the words I am far more comfortable with to lobby for the equality of older people in a culture that does everything possible to hide and demean us.
But I will leave my rants for another time. Today, I want to mark the first anniversary of my leap into personal cyberspace.
", "A Cyberspace Anniversary", '2004-08-05'),
(79, "janinesmith20@gmail.com", "janine smith", "
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics [BLS] reported last week that corporate America created a dismal 32,000 new jobs the previous month. Even so, President Bush, on the campaign trail, repeats his mantra that the economy is strong. 
Without getting into an election year debate, Crabby Old Lady has a couple of bones to pick with the government and the medias reporting of employment news which is so superficial as to be meaningless. Now dont go letting your eyes glaze over on this. Its important and if Crabby can take the time to figure it out, you can take the time to read it.
There is no doubt in Crabbys mind that if the real unemployment figures were told, John Kerry would already have a lock on the November election. Here is why:
The BLS reports each month on initial unemployment claims, that is, the number of people who sign up for a weekly stipend for which their former employers deducted a tax from their salary each month. An unemployed person is entitled to this stipend for 39 weeks. When it expires, that person is no longer counted as unemployed whether or not a job has been found. Does anyone have any idea, Crabby wants to know, how many who now collect no unemployment check are still unemployed and how much that would add to the current 5.5 percent unemployment rate? 
Heres another area where employment figures are skewed. The rule of thumb on the cost to a corporation of employing someone is that taxes and benefits add about 30 percent to the persons salary. That is, if a company pays an employee, $50,000 a year, it costs them $65,000.
In a widespread and unreported scam that sends Crabby around the bend when she thinks about it, corporations skirt or deliberately ignore the law to avoid paying those taxes and benefits by misclassifying employees as independent contractors. The IRS and the Department of Labor have specific guidelines for those two classifications, but enforcement is spotty  rare unless a contractor files a complaint with the IRS.
And thats the Catch-22. The IRS has a special form [pdf] to complain about misclassification. The complainant fills out one side, then the IRS sends it to the corporation who then knows the name of the contractor who complained and guess what? There is no regulation to keep the company from firing the complainant. Hows that, Crabby asks, for protecting workers rights? Here you go, weve got a remedy for you if your company is screwing you, but theyre allowed to fire you if you use it.
To be clear, not all contractors are misclassified. Some people choose to freelance and that is what the independent contractor designation is for. These people have more than one client; they are a one-person business paying all the taxes themselves, but with tax deductions available that misclassified, full-time employees do not have.
Here are some of the things that happen to a worker who is misclassified as an independent contractor. Crabby advises a Valium before reading:

In addition to his own, the worker pays the corporate half of FICA Social Security and Medicare
No unemployment insurance tax is paid by the corporation so when the contractor is laid off, he cannot collect unemployment insurance
No benefits are paid. That means no health insurance, no 401K or other pension program, no year-end bonus, no employee stock purchase plan
No paid vacation, no paid holidays, no paid sick leave, no paid family leave, no paid maternity leave, no paid personal days
", "Older Folks and the Employment Scene", '2004-08-09'),
(80, "colleenwatson23@gmail.com", "colleen watson", "
EDITORS NOTE: Don Murrays column today in the Boston Globe is about the wonderful realities we rush by during the busy years in the center of our lives. 
 A couple of weeks ago, I posted a piece here on some theories of why time seems to speed up as we get older. Eric Antonow responded in an email with such an interesting follow-up that I posted it too.

The Speed of Time 
The Speed of Time: Cache Time 
Eric was having so much fun with the theories that he posted three more stories about them on his site:
Theories of Times Passing: Clearing the Cache 
Travel and the Cache 
Psychology Support for Caching Theory 
And travelertrish chimed in on her site with more thoughts about Slowing Time Down.
Now, two researchers believe they have proved that time, in at least one circumstance, does fly.
Dr. Anthony Chaston and his research colleague, Dr. Alan Kingstone, have proven, once and for all, that time really does fly when youre having fun. Or, at least, it flies when your attention is engaged.

- NewsWise, 6 August 2004
Their research involved having test subjects estimate how long they would spend at a task before they had done it, called prospective time, and estimate how long they spent at a task when they had finished, call retrospective time. 
Theres generally a big difference between prospective and retrospective time estimations, Chaston said. In our society, were pretty good with prospective estimates. Most of us wear watches, and were pretty good at keeping track of the time because we have to for most of our regular, daily lives
This really shows that even if you know in advance that youre going to have to estimate the time of a task, the more attention the task requires, the faster time flies.

- NewsWise, 6 August 2004
", "Proof of the Speed of Time?", '2004-08-10'),
(81, "lauriejoslin95@gmail.com", "laurie joslin", "
UPDATE: As Mark Smith notes in the Comments section below, and much to Crabbys chagrin after all her bitching, her own site has mandated a name and email address to leave a comment. She has remedied that and anonymous posts are now allowed. However, Crabby has made a nice group of new cyber-friends by responding to some of her commenters and she hopes readers who want to will leave their addresses. 
 The tune for today, friends and neighbors, is the Sins of the World Wide Web and you may sing along if you know what Crabby Old Lady is talking about. This is the verse about stealing time. 
Crabbys home has two sets of sliding glass doors. They are 20 years old and one set does not slide very well anymore. On Sunday, Crabby clicked over to homedepot.com to see what they have that might fix her problem. She navigated to the appropriate section, found an item on the list worth reading about further and clicked on it.
Instead of a page explaining the workings of sliding glass door rollers, Crabby got a long registration form asking many personal questions. Crabby was not ready to buy yet. Crabby didnt even know yet if Home Depot had the information or the products she needs. But that didnt bother Home Depot. No more product info for you, you silly old lady, until you give us your life story.
Crabby ignored their rude request and typed l-o-w-e-s into her browsers Google tool bar, then clicked on over to that other home repair behemoth. Again, Crabby found the correct department and clicked on what appeared to be an item that might be useful in solving her problem. Lowes is not as snoopy before a purchase as Home Depot, but they did want a Zip Code. 
Crabby sighed deeply. It is not possible to travel the Web today without being stopped at every Website border. Why, just two days ago, Crabby saw a note on a low-traffic blog she checked; 0 links at Technorati that said: Please register to leave a comment. Who do you think you are, you twit. You should beg for comments, thought Crabby as she closed the browser window without reading further.
Having a stroll around the Web these days is increasingly like driving a surburban neighborhood with speed bumps every 50 feet. Sign in here. Register to proceed. Tell us about yourself. Help us make this site more useful for you. Oh, right, and Crabbys got this bridge you might be interested in buying
Crabby cant post on cyber-friends LiveJournal blogs with her name inserted because the software allows only LiveJournal users to do that. Anyone else must post as anonymous or remember to put their name in the body of the comment. What genius, Crabby asks, thought up that irritation? Do they believe it is in the best interests of their business and their users to make it hard to pursue the interplay that gives blogging  a large measure of its satisfaction?
Crabby subscribes to a number of Google news alerts. Each day, a list of latest stories related to her keywords drops into her email box so she can easily follow her topics of interest. She likes that the alerts search newspapers all around the U.S. and the globe so she is as likely to find an interesting story from the Butler PA Eagle  not a paper she would otherwise seek out  as The Guardian, the South China Morning Post or the Washington Post or the New York Times.
As often as not, however, when Crabby clicks the link to a story she wants to read, she instead gets a registration page. All these small-town newspapers seem to subscribe to the same registration service, and except for differing logos at the top, the forms are identical. They dont want just an ID and password. Oh, no. They want first name, last name, snailmail address, telephone number, email address and sundry questions about how often Crabby reads the paper, how she subscribes, who her favorite columnists are and what she had for breakfast.
It is not a fair exchange to require more information from a reader than reporters or newspapers are willing to give about themselves - just try to find an email address to complain. This is particularly so for information that takes longer to enter than it does to read the story that may not be worth the effort after all. Crabby may quote them and she always links to them when she does, but it is with the disheartening knowledge that her readers, if they follow the link, will be confronted with the same tedious form.
Crabby had stopped following links to small-town papers no matter how intriguing the headline and blurb in the alert email. Stopped, that is, until she was introduced to a new service created to thwart these nasty newspaper forms. Thanks to JDs New Media Musings, Crabby has found bugmenot.com and you should know about it too.
Type in the URL of the site thats bugging you about personal information and it will serve up a plain vanilla ID and password someone else has posted for everyones use. If there isnt one yet for the site thats badgering you, its your turn to contribute. Make one up to use then and to share with others.
Its not ideal. Surfing is still interrupted. But theres some small pleasure to be had in not typing in the same information for the hundredth time and in foiling the idiots who gain nothing from their questions anyway because Crabby, as thousands of other Web denizens, always lies.
At Crabbys age, her most precious possession is time. Stealing that makes Crabby angry and you dont want to do that. There is a reason she is called Crabby.
Crabbys follow-up: Tilting At Windmills

", "Sins of the World Wide Web", '2004-08-11'),
(82, "chillin63@gmail.com", "chillin", "
 Charlotte Jessie Banta Chambers.
Thats my moms name and I want you who have read and responded to A Mothers Final, Best Lesson to know that. The generosity of your comments online and in emails of a more personal nature have overwhelmed me in their openness and kindheartedness during the three months or so it took to write the story. I have learned from all of you, and some of you have become my friends. My heart is gladdened.
Together, we raised a number of important issues during this series that deserve a greater airing and discussion outside the context of a personal memoir, and I will be writing about them over the next few weeks under the general heading, A TGB Mom Issue. I invite you all  and any newcomers - to join in, either with comments any length is welcome or perhaps on your own blogs.
To alleviate the dispiriting notions we hold about older people, which are inexorably entwined with dying, there must be a change in our cultures attitudes toward death. A number of you spoke eloquently about this:
Denny Coates said,
Im afraid that if we deny the reality of death in life, then we close ourselves to the rest of what is real and incomprehensible and wonderful in life.
Jeanne noted that,
Death has been carefully depersonalized in our modern Western society  the family might not witness the death and are certainly seldom involved in the physical actions of preparing the body
Fran Pullara reminds us that
many religions have the ritual of washing the body before the morticians, coroners, etc. get hold of it. We live in such a fragmented society where the naturalness of death is hidden.
Although she was speaking in a slightly different context, Marja-Leena said,
something is not right in this country with the way we handle terminal illness. It leaves people no dignity in their most vulnerable hours that they are on parade during visiting hours when they are flat on their backs in pain, dying.
That so many of you wrote of discomfort with the Western way of death indicates that we yearn for something more meaningful. 
In other writing here, I have not infrequently referred to that baby boomer pig-in-a-python generation, larger by millions than the generations preceding and following it. By their overwhelming numbers, they have changed much in our culture and my new cyber-friend, David Wolfe, believes they will also change our attitudes toward getting older.
Im optimistic about a sea change in societys views on aging. It has to do with what I call the psychological center of gravity [PCG] - people within five years of the adult median age. They have a disproportionate influence on mainstream values and thoughts. Currently, with an adult median age of 45, the PCG is occupied by people from 40 to 50. Over the next few years, the adult median age will rise to 47, placing the PCG at 42 to 52. Thats enough to begin working a major transformation in how society views aging.
[By the way, you should look in on Davids blog, Ageless Marketing. You dont need to care a whit about the marketing industry. He is lobbying with expert knowledge and passion against the denial of aging and his arguments are consistently smart and insightful.]
Too often we use the word society to mean some amorphous blob of humanity. Away from the printed page, it is each of us and we can, by the individual choices we make at the end of the lives of our loved ones, be part of the solution that David - and I - believe will soon begin.
Until then, too many families are stuck with Jeannes experience last year when her mother died:
I hated the whole impersonal, conveyor belt feeling of my moms funeral, and I know my mom would have also. But there was so much pressure from the family to do the conventionally accepted thing and I was hurting too much to want to put up a huge fight. We should learn to follow our instincts more and not automatically do what society deems proper in such intensely private situations.
I did not plan to be my mothers caregiver in her final days. It was thrust on me. It made death, as Denny speaks of above, a part of my living and it enriched my life beyond any other single experience. 
Other TGB Mom Issues
Home Care For Aging Parents
", "A TGB Mom Issue: Toward Change in Views on Aging", '2004-08-12'),
(83, "lizziee21@gmail.com", "lizziee", "
 David Wolfe at Ageless Marketing today has posted a story objecting to the L.A. Times dance critics call for baby boomers to throw our demographic weight behind denial, or at least an ironic obfuscation of the facts of aging.
Amid all the blather about how boomers will age differently than their parents hardly anyone has examined boomers aging from a developmental perspective. Ms. Fisher is going through a stage and chances are shell get past it and discover unexpected pleasures in life as an old person.
I couldnt have said it better myself and I urge you to read Davids post and return to his site as he continues this series he is calling The Reality of Aging and Dying.

", "Embracing Age", '2004-08-13'),
(84, "jodybrown17@gmail.com", "jody brown", "
 Last week, Crabby raised a mild ruckus in the comment section with her complaint about registering to read online, particularly smalltown newspapers. One reader pointed out that this Weblog required a name and email address to post a comment  though there is the convenience of a checkbox to save the information for next time  and Crabby spoke to her alter ego, Ronni, who has now removed that requirement.
Nina believes a name and address for a blog comment is a different issue from newspaper and other site registrations because blog commenting
is akin to writing a letter to the editor of a magazine or newspaper, and you usually provide a return address when you do that.
Crabby agrees. And without those names and email addresses, she would have been denied the pleasure of some new online friendships. As she noted in her own comment, however, there are, at times, good reasons to post anonymously. Most seriously, some people have been fired from their jobs for opinions stated on their blogs and elsewhere online. 
Eric argues that registering is what pays for the content and he also advises
against phony registrationsIts theft, he says, even if theres no law against it and it demeans you.
That is a strong charge and Crabby not only respectfully disagrees with both points, she considers the requirement to answer up to two dozen questions to read an article of unknown value theft of her personal information and of her time which, at her age, is limited.
There exists excellent software to track visitors location, ISPs, operating systems, browser versions, keywords used in searches to reach the site, referring URLs, IP addresses, paths through sites, time of day, click-through rates on ads and a lot more. Large amounts of additional information can be extracted and extrapolated from these bits to offer advertisers. They do not need name, snailmail address and telephone number which are useful only in selling to postal direct mailers and telemarketers. 
Additionally, Crabbys alter ego knows personally of unscrupulous third-party software partners of Websites, which usually supply the technology to collect personal information, who retain the information on their own servers for their own marketing use. The slightly more ethical Websites include a note in tiny print that they share information with their partners almost always unnamed, but its hard to find and frequently hidden in the privacy statement, many of which are littered with legalistic gibberish making it impossible to figure out if they sell, lend, trade or share information.
In addition to her editorial responsibilities, Crabbys alter ego has been the privacy officer at every Website at which she has worked. She has attended numerous privacy conferences in Washington at the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Commerce. She has worked closely with her employers sales and marketing teams and with their data collection managers to find the ethical balance between preservation of site visitors and customers privacy rights and the necessities of profit. She knows it can be done without coercive means.
So until there is effective legislation controlling the collection and use of private information online unlikely in Crabbys lifetime along with more transparency from Websites about how they use the data they collect, she will continue to submit bogus information to help control the use of her personal information by others.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Crabby knows its an exercise in futility and we have already lost most of the privacy we once owned, never to be retrieved. But Crabby read Don Quixote and the righteousness of the battle attracts her.

", "Tilting At Windmills", '2004-08-16'),
(85, "bg33@gmail.com", "bg", "
EDITORS NOTE: Dont miss Don Murrays latest column in the Boston Globe. Today he writes about the luxury age gives us of the time to reflect.
 A couple of weeks ago as I was crossing Carmine Street in loose, summer-beige pants and a loose linen shirt the better to camouflage a mid-section that threatens lately overcome my tits in girth, a gorgeous man of about 30 or so grinned as he passed and said, Lookin good, baby. Aside from a fleeting thought about his need for an ophthalmologist, it brought back memories.
When I was younger and cuter and in particular, skinnier, I liked wearing, for casual days running about the city, tight jeans and high-heeled shoes. A bit of a trashy, tart-ish look? Yes, indeed. Did it cause men to react with various expressions of sexual innuendo? You betcha. And unlike some other feminists who believed men are being sexist when they throw out a bawdy glance or phrase, I liked every minute of it.
It has been about 12 or 15 years since I garnered that kind of attention in the streets and the young man two weeks ago was a reminder of how much fun it was  a randomly-scheduled but regular confirmation-without-consequence that I was, when I wanted to be, a foxy chick.
For all but ten years of my adult life, I have been single with an additional handful of moderately short-lived, full-time attachments and no children. Therefore, being a normal, healthy, horny woman, I never saw a reason, in between periods of fidelity, to let my unmarried, uncommitted status inhibit my participation in what is, arguably, the friendliest, most pleasurable thing two people can do.
Besides the fact that it just plain feels so damned good, sex comes in many delicious flavors. Leaving procreation aside for this discussion, it can be playful, loving, raunchy, lazy, flirtatious, friendly, urgent, serious, funny, companionable, romantic  well, you know what I mean. Were all grownups here. It can overcome anger, brighten a rainy afternoon and it can express the ineffable as when the word love is sometimes not enough. I have known it in all these ways and more.
So it was shocking when I realized one day about ten years ago that I hadnt thought about sex in a week or more. Never before had a day gone by without at least a fleeting image or two or ten of some recent evening in dishabille or anticipation of an upcoming la nuit damour. As weeks and months passed, it became apparent that my libido, at least in its former vigor, had left the premises, and I was saddened.
I liked my former sexual self. She was an important part of how I defined me. She had been a pillar of my self-image from age 15, and she had given me enormous pleasure which I joyfully and enthusiastically shared with my partners. Now, without her, I could not be certain of who I was, and I mourned the loss of her.
In time, happily, a new and unanticipated sexual self came to live within me. She is a bit a more dignified. She exhibits little of the old-style, ceaseless and unfocused horniness which demanded satisfaction one way or another. Instead, she waits patiently on the other side of thought until an object of desire crosses her path. And then she rears her head in all her former glory though not as much gluttony.
How delightful this new sexual self is and I wish sometimes she had joined me when we were younger. There is more time now for friends and cooking and reading and movies and thinking and writing this blog. And I get more sleep at night. 
More importantly, she helps prove that as age dims some pleasures, it awakens others  and all we need to do is be there to accept them.

", "The Friendliest Thing Two People Can Do", '2004-08-17'),
(86, "joelarabell72@gmail.com", "joe larabell", "
 Men, you have permission to take the day off from Time Goes By. Im pretty sure this is mostly a womens matter, though you might be interested in the associated cultural and psychological issues.
Take a look at those photos up there on my banner, specifically, number six from the left  the fro. Times passage has made it funny, even a folly, but in the early 1970s, it was the height of cool for a white girl in New York City. I was even a little ahead of the style curve on this one by a year or so.
It was at that time I first noticed more than a few gray hairs. In fact, there got to be so many the lobby guard where I then worked, asked one winter morning if it was snowing.
I grayed early. For awhile, I thought it was cute for a girl in her thirties, but it didnt take long for my hair to become mostly gray and I still thought in those days that I might marry again. Not wanting to be overlooked as aged by potential mates, I gave in to coloring though it was hardly a momentous decision. I chose a red slightly lighter than my natural color and so it has remained - more or less - for 30 years. About three years ago, I allowed a streak in my natural color to emerge in front. I was shocked at first that it is pure white, then it became a signature look.
One of the things about getting older, I have found, is a growing disinterest in the smaller vanities. Neatness counts for fingernails, but lacquer has become an occasional indulgence, not a requirement. I havent painted my toenails in 10 years and the days when I would not go to the corner deli without makeup are gone with the waistline. 
It may or may not be related to a recent email from a friend in the Middle East who noted that she had let her hair go gray, but I have missed by three weeks so far my monthly hair color touch-up. It feels like I have made, among the hither and thither of daily life, an ad hoc decision to match my friends courage.
It will, when my hair grows out, mark me definitely among the older generation. One reason not to have done this earlier is the necessity to earn a living. Recent past experience in job hunting, which I will write about fairly soon, removed any doubt that age discrimination is alive and kicking in the U.S. workforce, so I question this decision made so casually. After being laid off in June, I gave myself permission to take the summer off, but September looms and I will again face those 25-year-old vice presidents who havent resolved their relationships with their parents, let alone their capacity to manage a stranger with a grandmothers visage.
So it is a risky move, going gray. Although I am reserving the right to change my mind, it feels like a permanent decision - part of, perhaps, Jungs seven tasks of aging which David Wolfe at Ageless Marketing is currently writing about. In this instance, number four: letting go of the dominance of ones ego. 
I cannot claim a conscious choice to move in the direction of this phase of getting older. I seem to be drifting toward it, propelled by unknown inner or outer forces, but it is not unwelcome. I am intensely curious and eager to know what kind of old lady I am becoming and letting go of this vanity feels like a good next step.
[Updated on 17 May 2005 here.]
", "Graying Vanities", '2004-08-18'),
(87, "l.a.bohensky92@gmail.com", "l.a. bohensky", "
 A number of important issues came up during my series, A Mothers Final, Best Lesson, that deserve an airing and discussion outside the context of a personal memoir. The first was Toward a Change in Views on Aging. Todays TGB Mom Issue concerns home caregiving. You are invited to join in, either with comments any length is welcome or perhaps on your own blogs.
When I was a little girl in Portland, Oregon, old people were as common in the neighborhood as children. Youd see them sweeping their sidewalk in the mornings, gardening, having a stroll down the block or reading the newspaper on the porch in the evenings. They were part of the landscape, our sometime babysitters and we kids knew them all.
Some were older couples whose children had grown and gone. There were widows and the occasional widower living still in the three- or four-bedroom houses where once they had raised their children. But most of the older folks were the grandmothers or grandfathers who lived with my friends families.
Sometimes theyd give one of us kids a dollar to run to the local market for bread or milk or sugar when they ran short. Oh, and be sure to get yourself a candy bar or Popsicle while youre there, theyd say. 
And some were sick or disabled, bedridden or just old. My friends in families with an ailing grandparent were among the caregivers. I cant come over today, Ronni, one would say. Moms busy and Ive gotta take care of Gramps. Why dont you come over here. 
This is not an exercise in nostalgia, but a reminder that until about 40 or 50 years ago in America, old people were an integral part of community life and three generations living under the same roof were not the exception. That was back in the days before our corporate employers required work to supersede all other of lifes claims on our attention, and before we began warehousing our older folks in facilities. 
When my mother, living three thousand miles away, was told in 1992 that she had terminal cancer, Beth Polson, who was the executive producer of the television show on which I worked, didnt blink. She immediately arranged for a rented computer, printer, fax and additional phone lines to be delivered to an extra room at my mothers home, and I took my job with me while I cared for Mom during her final three months.
Not all jobs lend themselves to that kind of mobility, but many could - if employers would make what is, usually, a small effort. In our age of computers, VPNs, email, instant messengers, cell phones and overnight delivery, it has never been easier.
To care for our older relatives also requires a shift in a cultural attitude that seems, sometimes, to have slipped its rails. Recently, I read of a full-time mother who rejected the idea of caring for an ill parent at home because, she said, her kids had to be driven to soccer practice and games, music lessons, tutors, dancing class and other activities, plus she had tennis, swimming, her womens club and what-all. There was no time.
That is shameful and I am embarrassed for that woman. Cancel tennis and the womens club. They will be there after mom is dead. Get other mothers to drive the kid to the swim meet. Tell the kids to give up half their activities for a year and help care for grandma. It will enrich them throughout their lives far more than any kickboxing class. 
Have some empathy, for gods sake, get a grip on whats important and think about what you are teaching your kids. Do you want to be socked away in your final days in a cement room with peeling green paint and no one to change your diapers but once a day? We all believe it wont happen to us, but for some, it will.
Here are some preliminary thoughts on how we can make caring for aged parents at home possible again. Perhaps you have others.

In the workplace, maternity and paternity leave are mandated and most companies provide sick leave, bereavement leave, personal days and some even have mental health days. Caregiving leave could be instituted particularly, as with my mother, when there is a relatively fixed time until death. For longer periods of care, corporations can develop  or government could mandate - a caregivers temporary telecommuting program for jobs that can be done long distance.
Small businesses, obviously, can rarely absorb leave, but many might be able to institute temporary telecommuting.
Enlist the family to help, including the children. Even a five-year-old can carry the newspaper or a glass of water to grandma. If your brother lives an hour or two away, he can donate two Saturdays a month. Make up a schedule for other family members to help.
Older children can be made responsible for cooking dinner twice a week or caregiving for three hours after school so the main caregiver can get out of the house to shop, have a swim or just rest from the constant need to be on call.
There is no extra bedroom, you say? Would you really begrudge turning your dining room or part of the living room or family room into a comfortable place for your mother or father during their final illness?
Im way out of my area of knowledge on this one and dont know what Im talking about, but perhaps caregivers insurance could be established that would provide money to replace at least some of a caregivers salary when the employer cant or wont pay during a leave. We have pet health coverage and Im not denigrating that, so couldnt we have coverage for family caregiving too? It all depends on what a culture believes is important. 
", "A TGB Mom Issue: Home Care For Aging Parents", '2004-08-20'),
(88, "geraldgreenberg47@gmail.com", "gerald greenberg", "
 Theres been just way too much going on here. The pleasant, but disruptive visit of an old friend staying with me for a few days in my one-bedroom apartment, a dinner party, my Website broken for three days, meetings with people about a mutual legal problem, more meetings with an attorney about a condo problem. Some non-blogging writing Im having trouble with and the mounting pressure I feel of my approaching employment hunt beginning in September. In between, I find myself lying about not doing things that need doing, daydreaming away an hour or two at a time. My bodys fine, but my mind is in overload.
I was thinking about what my blogging friend, Cowtown Pattie, said in an email about not liking the hustle and bustle of urban life. In contrast to her, I love the big city, though I live in what is essentially a small town within New York with winding streets lined with trees, 200-year-old, four-story townhouses instead of modern, 60-story apartment houses like uptown. And this neighborhood still has two real butchers, three fruit and vegetable markets, two bakeries, a cheese shop, newsstands, family-owned pizza parlors that have been here for 50 years.
Not much big-town bustle here except on Saturday nights when the young bridge-and-tunnel crowd arrives looking for the kind of bohemian Greenwich Village that hasnt existed since the 1950s. There are no nightclubs nor restaurants that appeal to that group on my street, so they dont get in the way of my peaceful enjoyment of life. The most intrusive noises I hear are the trucks from the nearby firehouse on their way to save lives and Im grateful theyre around the corner, just in case. 
Nevertheless, there is a constant buzz in the air of a city this size and uptown-style hubbub can intrude at any moment. The reporter held hostage in Iraq, Micah Garin, lives nearby, across the street from my favorite coffee house, so ten TV vans have been parked there for the past week aiming their cameras at his apartment windows, drawing crowds of gawkers. My block was cordoned off this weekend for a film shoot attracting another set of oglers hoping to see a movie star. Unwilling to give up their spot on the sidewalk with a sight-line to the movie-making action, they made the to- and fro-ing of weekend errands almost impossible and then left their soda bottles and food wrappers on my stoop.
Its times like this with too much personal and public life swirling around that I miss the country house I had in the Catskill Mountains for five years in the 1970s. It wasnt surburban. It was rural. And the nearest town was seven miles down the road. I cooked on a wood-burning stove there, even baked bread in that oven, tended the flower beds in summer, made quilts and refinished furniture in the winter.  I never thought of the house as a respite - I was always busy - though looking back from the distance of nearly 30 years, I suppose it was a slower, more contemplative counterpoint to my hectic weekday world. 
Sometimes, over past years, even without the temporary invasion of hundreds of extra folks mucking up what I think of as my narrow streets, I have daydreamed about living in a house in a small town in Maine or at the Oregon coast. Ive gone so far, occasionally, as to check out housing prices online in those two places, but Ive never actually made a phone call or visited them with a purchase in mind. I have no memory of not wanting to live in New York City. Ive been here for 35 years, and it is home. Portland, Oregon is little more than a name I enter on forms when birthplace is requested.
And yet, I daydream of a different kind of life. Is it my imagination that it happens more frequently now? Might it be that in the personal timeline of our prescribed four score and ten, the day arrives when the swirling kaleidoscope of the 40 years of active mid-life naturally shifts to something different? Ive never thought about retirement. I dislike even the sound of the word, and I will continue to work, absent the bigotry of age discrimination, for as long as physical and mental capacities remain. 
But something new is calling me and I suspect it is more complex than the desire for a change in scenery. What could it be?
", "The Call of a New Personal Age?", '2004-08-23'),
(89, "quinceaffolter72@gmail.com", "quince affolter", "
EDITORS NOTE: Today in the Boston Globe, Donald Murray is taking a lighthearted view of the obstacles to walking around at his age, something everyone should be aware of as we go dashing past older people in our headlong rush to - where?
 A few days ago, Nina Turns 40 posted a terrific essay over at her blog  titled Sex and the Single Mom in which she linked to my recent post on sex. In it, Nina decried the cultural pressure to endanger ones health to maintain a youthful appearance if you want any man to notice you after a certain age.
What do I get told about my sexuality as I get older, based on the same criteria of TV commercials? That I have to inject toxic substances the letters tox form part of the name, for crissake into my face so that, heaven forbid, I dont have a crease between my eyebrows, she wrote.
She set me off on a diatribe about our cultures values on appearance and aging which is posted there along with other readers comments. Cowtown Pattie of Texas Trifles, whos been turning up here a lot recently, had this to say at Ninas blog:
No one here has addressed the one thing that I find missing in all these equations: love. Perhaps it is a curse of my age, or maybe it is more sublimal/primordial thing, but I have never been able to remove the love factor from the sexual equation. I am not a prude, I enjoy sex, but I do not enjoy it as a purely physical activity.
From my experience, Pattie, one would hope for love but it and its facsimiles have stung me to the quick so many times and, if my friends  men and women  are any gauge, many others too that it has proved to be an elusive, if not impossible, dream. On bad days, I believe each of us is issued at birth a tolerance for only so much emotional pain and if it gets used up before we die, there is also no more room for emotional joy.
But thats only on my worst days. There arent many.
Ive entered into romances that lasted anywhere from a few weeks to a couple of years and I knew up front it wasnt going to be forever. Sometimes Ive started out thinking it was love only to find out, in time, it was lust and not sustainable. Twice, I loved so much, so deeply that I thought my heart would burst and I believed there was no force on earth that could sever our devotion. I felt that way once about my former husband too. Love goes wrong every day. 
We humans yearn to connect with another of our kind and we strive so bravely to do it in a modern media world in which the relationship between love and sex has been loosening its bonds for decades. Ten-year-old girls wear thongs today. Their pubescent music idols ticket sales shoot up when their 55-hour, Las Vegas marriages get worldwide attention. Movie stars flaunt their extramarital affairs and when we read the tabloids, there is no mention of the private pain their celebrity spouses suffer as we do.
Personally, I dont care what other people do individually. I am concerned, however, that we live in a world so cynical that a loving, faithful marriage is considered a snore. It is no wonder some of us are confused, and sometimes, it seems to me, when love cannot be found, like is enough. And occasionally, if you are lucky in like, the sex has been known to turn into love.
There is nothing so sublime as lying close together with ones beloved after sex. What works best for you, Pattie my libido has always been intertwined with my emotions, is the ideal and I would wave my magic wand over everyone for such if I could. 
But in the sexually permissive culture we live in where even the Olympics on television, as Nina notes, are soaked in sex drug commercials, our ideas about sex and love cannot help but change, as it has with the really young uns now. Did you know that the phrase, hook up, which has always meant to me to meet at a mutually agreed upon location, now means to teenagers to get together purely for sex, even when they have met before only online? When one types, Lets hook up at your place into his or her instant messenger, it is understood its for sex. No how-do-you-do. No romantic dinner first. No pretense at even the tentative tenderness of blossoming love. Just sex. Im not here to judge the kids, but the times certainly are changing.
For us older folks who are unlikely to make such an extreme sexual switch, I believe, as John Lennon said, whatever gets you through the night. And if it can only be like, Im all for it.

", "An Old Ladys View of Sex and Love", '2004-08-24'),
(90, "estellerosenbaum88@gmail.com", "estelle rosenbaum", "
 Anyone who regularly reads between the lines here knows that Crabby Old Lady reserves her highest dudgeon for time thieves. She figures shes got fewer years left here on earth than younger folks and there are a lot of things she wants to do. So anyone who impedes her progress due to inattention, laziness or corporate incompetence deserves to forfeit their left little toe.
You think thats mean? Thats nothing. Ask Crabby sometime why she opposes the death penalty and what she would replace it with, if you want to know mean. There are acts heinous enough, Crabby believes, that extreme measures are necessary to right the wrong, and she classifies some only a few ladder rungs below the pre-meditated taking of life. Stealing time is one of them because it is the only thing of real value any human owns.
Crabby will undoubtedly recover her equilibrium once her electronic connection to the world is restored, but right now her dudgeon is about to burst through the upper reaches of the scale. 
At this writing Wednesday, Crabbys ISP, Roadrunner by name, has been off line for 26 hours. When she calls the help line, she gets a recorded announcement in an impenetrable accent from some nether region of New York City that drops the last letter or syllable of every word. She believes the message is related to working to restore service - if thats what the phrase that sounds something like wor t rest serva means.
This outage follows closely several weeks of on-again, off-again service  for which Roadrunner erroneously blamed Crabbys equipment  culminating in another recent day of downtime. 
For several years now, the Internet has been no less a necessity than a utility. When telephone service is disrupted or there is a blackout, it is treated as a local catastrophe. Radio and television cover it like a hurricane. Executives of the utility in question hold press conferences to update the extent of the problem and estimate recovery time. The mayor usually gets into the act too. It is understood that business and personal life come to a standstill without these services but it has not yet penetrated the pea brains of those who run the media, local government and Internet providers that when Internet service is disrupted, the public must be kept apprised of the repair progress to be able to plan their lives around the outage.
Crabby has been listening to news radio all day. There has been no announcement of the loss of Roadrunners Internet service, yet this is no two- or three-block disruption. Telephone calls with friends at various locations around town confirm that at least a third of Manhattan is affected.
After a trip to Philadelphia on Tuesday, Crabby had set aside six or seven hours at the computer for Wednesday. Her attorney is expecting notes for a negotiation. Some edited materials need to be delivered to a colleague. There are some electronic documents with a time limit that need forwarding. Online research that will take a couple of hours is needed to find the gift she wants for a friends fast-approaching 40th birthday. It is time to pay next months bills online.
Crabby had a full schedule planned for Thursday and Friday, but time, when it is lost, can not be recovered and she will scramble through the rest of the week now to meet deadlines. A pleasurable lunch will be canceled. Perhaps a meeting postponed.
Today - Wednesday - Crabby has been trying to accomplish on the telephone what would be easier online. It amazes her that no one complains about the collective billions of minutes stolen from consumers each year in the form of telephone menus. Phone any business and there are 10, 20 and more choices to navigate hoping, before the end, for one that matches the intent of the call. As frequently as not, it doesnt exist and some evil companies have no live help.
Whatever happened to the operator?
OPERATOR: XYZ Company
CALLER: I need to speak with the billing department.
OPERATOR: Thank you. Ill connect you.
Five seconds.
And there is another problem with telephone menus. On many home telephones and all mobile phones, the buttons are located on the receiver which must be removed from the ear to punch in the selection. On returning the receiver to the ear, the announcement has already moved forward to select number 1. For the shipping department, select
Select number 1 for what? The choices come so swiftly after a selection that the first part of the next choice is missed. How hard is it, Crabby asks, in preparing a recording, to skip a beat before proceeding to allow for that second of time?
There is no remedy but to call back and start over no small effort if the caller had already managed to navigate the first four or five selections, this time keeping the phone as close to the ear as possible while making one selection so as to not miss the next. More time gone for what is, usually, an inconsequential, but necessary, maintenance of life issue.
And that doesnt count, after reaching the correct selection, hold time until a customer service representative is freed up from other callers.
Multiply all these five- and ten-minute menu navigations they get even longer when several commercials for unwanted services are forced on the caller by however many millions of adults there are in the U.S. and then by however many of these menus each adult must tolerate per year and the collective man-hours could solve world hunger.
Crabby knows from past experience that when her Internet connection is again in working order, there will be no announcement as to the cause, no assurance that steps have been taken to avoid the problem in the future, and there will be no refund for the downtime on her next bill.
Crabby is not getting any younger and since no one can return her lost Wednesday and portions of Tuesday and Thursday, she is meditating on what, if she were king of the world, would be the proper penalty for this most recent thievery of her time. Would a forced 24-hour session with telephone menus do it? Or how about the little toe of Roadrunners CEO?
EDITORS NOTE: Roadrunners final downtime before restoration of service totaled 46 hours. To get up and running again, a call to the help desk was required. When Crabby asked the techie why someone had not considered an announcement on local radio, he said, Lady, the Internet is a luxury.
", "Time Thieves", '2004-08-26'),
(91, "gordbradshaw81@gmail.com", "gord bradshaw", "
 Speaking at a conference in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, last week, Federal Reserve chief, Alan Greenspan, noted that the percentage of the U.S. population over the age of 65 will increase from about 12 percent today to about 20 percent by 2030. This will significantly reduce the number of Social Security contributors per beneficiary, he said, resulting in a chronic deficit to Social Security and Medicare and reduced benefits unless something is done. 
[There is much more to his speech and you can read a transcript here.] 
Some experts have weighed in to refute Greenspans claim of impending Social Security deficits, but since this debate erupts every two or three months, lets go with Greenspan this time. And dont go letting your eyes glaze over. This is important stuff  for you, your children, your grandchildren and beyond.
Assuming Greenspan is correct, remedies are needed. Among the Fed chairmans  suggestions are:

Cut benefits
Promote personal saving
Increase productivity
Raise the age for receiving benefits
Promote longer working life

None of these is new, although they gain importance from Greenspans support, and they all deserve vigorous public debate. But today, we will concentrate on the last two which are mirror images of one another.
Depending on how old you are, you may not have noticed that the age for receiving Social Security benefits has already been raised slightly. I, for example, am not eligible for full benefits until I reach age 65 and 10 months. This is the result of some 1983 amendments to the Social Security Act increasing the age from 65 to 67, phased in over a 27-year period which began in 2000.
However, as Greenspan noted in his speech, there is a growing scarcity of experienced workers and, he says
despite the improving feasibility of work at older ages [due to improved health and longevity], Americans have been retiring at younger ages. 
Early retirement has been the norm in the United States for a couple of decades, according to AARP*, and more Americans begin collecting reduced Social Security benefits at age 62 than wait for full benefits when they are 65. 
No survey I can find has asked why Americans retire earlier than the established age, but I believe I have part of the answer: Some unknown number are forced into taking early benefits not because they want to retire, but because they cant find work. I know four people in their 60s who are healthy, active and accomplished in their fields. But younger people were hired in their places and now, instead of contributing, these folks are a burden to the system. It is a terrible waste - of public money and of manpower.
There is a nasty little secret that government policy wonks and officials like Alan Greenspan do not acknowledge in discussing postponement of the age for Social Security benefits and promotion of additional working years: age discrimination.
It is hard to understand how Mr. Greenspan expects to extend the working life of older Americans when no one will hire them as anything other than Wal-Mart greeters at minimum wage. The number of age discrimination complaints filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission EEOC have been increasing dramatically - from 14,141 in 1999 when the rise began, to 19,124 in 2003. And thats only the people who bother to complain.
One of the excuses corporations offer for not hiring older workers is they cost too much. Older employees want higher salaries than younger folks, executives say. Yes, we do, and it is only right because we have decades of training and experience and were better than weve ever been. Human resources managers say the cost of benefits increases when they hire older workers, and the costs of healthcare in general are soaring. The latter is true. It is another serious fiscal problem the country must address soon, but its not due to older people in the workforce.
One way to help might be to do more than blather about the wanton increase, in the past decade, in executive compensation that rose 9.1 percent in 2003 to an average of $8.1 million per year. The ratio of average CEO compensation to average production worker salaries was 400-to-1 in 2002, compared to 42-to-1 in 1982, according to one source. Other estimates go as high a 900-to-1.
Chop just $1 millon from one executives salary and 20 workers can be hired. Chop $5 million and a hundred can be hired. And if you dont know how to live on $3.1 million a year, I dont believe you have the skills to run a corporation effectively or efficiently.
Perhaps I am more sensitive about this right now, fairly distressed as I am at facing a limp job market in September with sharp memories still of a 14-month period of unemployment three years ago when colleagues in their thirties were being hired after only a few weeks of searching. I know the shocked look on the faces of 25-year old vice presidents who thought I was their age in our preliminary conversations on the telephone. Ive been through the bums rush of 15-minute cursory interviews, and I am cringing again at the indignity of removing years of valuable experience from my resume because, the experts say, it makes me appear too old.
Mr. Greenspans and other policy wonks ideas about a longer career life are good. Sixty-five was an arbitrary choice for retirement anyway when the Social Security Act went into effect in 1935. Greenspan himself is 78 and began his fifth four-year term as Fed chairman in June.
Today we are healthier, more active and better educated that weve ever been. It is time for corporate America to take advantage of our expertise rather than toss us out on the street. How cheap will those younger workers be when corporate America will need to raise salaries to afford the higher taxes to pay increasing millions of competent older folks not to work?
* Raising Retirement Age: How Much of a Solution to Rising Support Burdens in the Developed World [PDF]
 - AARP Public Policy Institute, June 2000
EDITORS NOTE: Dont miss the the most recent Comment on Time Thieves from Buffy dated 29 August 2004. I promise you will laugh out loud.

", "Raising Retirement Age", '2004-08-30'),
(92, "susanm.83@gmail.com", "susan m.", "
 So much to read. So little time. Crabby Old Lady is bitching about her time problems again. She knows she is stepping on some toes as her complaints today apply to blogs and bloggers are among her readers. But Crabby will be, well  crabby about these things and its time to get them off her chest. Feel free to rip on her if you have a different point of view.  
Bloggers, in general, are not seeking the numbers of readers who visit, for example, The New York Times Website, but it is nice to know there are people who enjoy your blog and that you are not writing in a vacuum. Some bloggers, however, seem bent keeping readers away not by what they write, which may be compelling, but with how they present their material. There are some blogs Crabby reads despite how difficult their owners make it, but in the long run she will leave, as will others. So listen up. 
Text Styling. It may be coincidence, but recently Crabby has run into an increasing number of blogs posted in italic, which is hard to read on a screen. It cant be seen, but the screen constantly flickers and that tires eyes, especially Crabbys old eyes, so dont make it any harder on her. Save italic for emphasis of a word or two; title of books, magazines, Websites and newspapers; and material that is not part of the main body of the post. Also, using the Verdana font in worth considering. It was invented for ease of reading online which it does nicely.
Background Color. Crabby doesnt care what color the text is, reading on a black background makes her squint, so she doesnt bother anymore, ever, with dark backgrounded sites. Besides, as a style, dark backgrounds are so 20th century.
Posting Dates. A few bloggers use no dates at all. A larger number hide the date at the bottom of the posts. This makes it difficult for Crabby to know if she has read that particular entry or not. She may not visit a blog every day, but if she is a regular, she has a general idea of how recently she was there, and would like to know how fresh the post is without wasting her time re-reading the first paragraph or two before she realizes its old. For the same reason, time of day is important to post with the date when a blogger publishes throughout the day.
Blogrolls. These are the life blood of blogging. We find one another through investigating links on the blogs we like under the assumption that a good blogger will link to others who have a similar sensibility. Those links are recommendations. For that reason, Crabby finds long blogrolls of 100, 200, 300 links suspect. Nobody reads that many blogs and Crabby doesnt believe they are all worth her time, so some paring is in order. Give readers a short list of excellent blog links that deserve a wider audience.
And alphabetize them, please. Sometimes Crabby goes to a blog because she knows there is a link to a site she wants to see again and did not bookmark. Help her out. Gordon.Coale, although his blogroll is endless, separates his into categories and that helps a lot.
Link Rot. It is disappointing when a link that appears to be interesting turns out to be dead and it makes a site appear to be out of date. Check your links regularly. There are free spiders that will easily do that for you. Here is one. 
Read More. It is relatively common for bloggers to post the beginning of an entry  five or six lines or so  with a Read More link to the entire story. Crabby understands this is a traditional option of blogging software, but the reason eludes her. It interrupts the flow of the story and she has no way to know if the post is a couple of paragraphs in length or six pages. She might not have time right now to read 5,000 words. The Web is all about choice, so make it easy for readers to enjoy your site on their terms.
Link Blogs. Some bloggers who write little themselves, scour the Web for interesting material. Crabby likes discovering new information this way, but too many make the page or story title the link without explaining why it is worth a readers time. It only takes a sentence to explain why readers should visit that place on the Web.
Fair Use and Source Your Quotes. There is a copyright doctrine in the U.S. called fair use. It allows quotation from other peoples works without payment, but in small amounts. Crabby has noticed some bloggers who not only quote entire articles from other blogs and from books, newspapers and magazines, they post the material without quotes or without citing the original. Or, if they do, it is hidden in a tiny font at the bottom of the story, easy to miss.
It does not appear to Crabby that bloggers who do this intend to present the material as their own. She believes that because most bloggers are not professional writers, they dont realize the harm to those who are. In addition, the English language has a handy little device called quotation marks which is an instant alert to readers that the material is from another source. Surrounding others written works with them is the right thing to do.
Aside from these Web best practices, some of which are particularly useful for older folks, Crabby finds remarkable the generally excellent and sometimes inventive use of the English language - compared to the population at large - in the blogs she reads. It is heartening, in the face of decades of failing test scores and failing schools, that English is not only alive and well, but flourishing - at least in the blog universe.
Crabby Old Lady understands she is behaving like a schoolmarm today. She cant be sure, but sometimes believes she was a teacher in another life.
", "Crabby's Principles of Blogging", '2004-09-01'),
(93, "mikeob47@gmail.com", "mikeob", "
EDITORS NOTE: Just when we were discussing some serious issues of retirement recently, this arrived by email. The danger in publishing it is that it is not impossible I am at the end of the line and everyone else has read it six times. Nevertheless, this one seems to belong on Time Goes By permanently and I like it so much, Im going to take the chance. Just in case it is the oldest chestnut on the Web, however, Im blaming it on my friend and accountant, Mike Oser, who forwarded it to me.
 No nursing home for me! Im checking into the Hilton Inn. With the average cost for a nursing home per day reaching $188.00, there is a better way when we get old and feeble. I have already checked on reservations at the Hilton. For a combined long-term stay discount and senior discount, it is $49.23 per night. That leaves $138.77 a day for:

Breakfast, lunch, and dinner in any restaurant I want, or room service
Laundry, gratuities, and special TV movies

Plus, they provide a swimming pool, a workout room, a lounge, washer, dryer, etc. Most have free toothpaste and razors and all have free shampoo and soap. They treat you like a customer, not a patient. $5.00 worth of tips a day will have the entire staff scrambling to help you.
There is a city bus stop out front and seniors ride free. The handicap bus will also pick you up if you fake a reasonably good limp. To meet other nice people, call a church bus on Sundays. For a change of scenery, take the airport shuttle bus and eat at one of the nice restaurants there. While youre at the airport, fly somewhere. Otherwise, the cash keeps building up.
It takes months to get into decent nursing homes. Hilton will take your reservation today. And you are not stuck in one place forever. You can move from Hilton to Hilton, or even from city to city. Want to see Hawaii? They have a Hilton there, too - the wonderful Hilton Hawaiian Village and Spa.
TV broken? Light bulbs need changing? Need a mattress replaced? No problem. They fix everything and apologize for the inconvenience. The Inn has a night security person and daily room service. The maid checks if you are okay. If not, they will call the undertaker or an ambulance. If you fall and break a hip, Medicare will pay for the hip, and Hilton will upgrade you to a suite for the rest of your life.
And no worries about visits from family. They will always be glad to find you at the Inn and will probably check in for a few days mini-vacation. The grandkids can use the pool.
What more can you ask for?
So, when I reach the golden age, Ill face it with a grin. Just forward all my email to the Hilton Inn.
Upon telling this story at a dinner with friends and too much red wine, we came up with even more benefits the Hilton provides to retirees:
Most standard rooms have coffeemakers, easy chairs with ottomans, and satellite TV - all you need to enjoy a cozy afternoon. After a movie and a good nap, you can check on your children free local phone calls, then take a stroll to the lounge or restaurant where you meet new and exotic people every day. Many Hiltons even feature live entertainment on the weekends.
Often they have special offers, too, like the Kids Eat Free Program. You can invite your grandkids over after school to have a free dinner with you. Just tell them not to bring more than three friends.
If you want to travel, but are a bit skittish about unfamiliar surroundings, in a Hilton youll always feel at home because wherever you go, the rooms all look the same.
And if youre getting a little absent-minded in your old days, you never have to worry about not finding your room. Your electronic key fits only one door and the helpful bellman or desk clerk is on duty 24/7.
I told Stephen Bollenback, CEO of Hilton this story. Im happy to report that he was positively ecstatic at the idea of us checking in for a year or more at one of their hotels. Stephen said we could have easily knocked them down to $40 a night.
See you at the Hilton. And not just for a Bounce Back Weekend, but for the rest of our lives.
 - anonymous
", "Let's Retire to the Hilton", '2004-09-02'),
(94, "karel89@gmail.com", "karel", "

Age discrimination is real. We know it anecdotally from readers weve heard from whove been blatantly discriminated against because theyre older. We know it from legal casesAnd we know it from statistics.


- Katharine Hansen, quintessentialcareers.com", "Crimes Against Older Workers", '2004-09-03'),
(95, "torysullivan63@gmail.com", "tory sullivan", "
 An American girl learns, as early as her pre-teen years, that if she is not a natural beauty  as defined by the producers of movies, television and Seventeen magazine - she is required by the youth-and-beauty police to do everything possible to enhance her best features and play down her worst. Not too much later than age 12 or 13 these days, that involves cosmetic surgery. Yes, even teens undergo the knife to improve their appearance.
In my youth, such procedures were unavailable to women who were not wealthy and it was shocking to hear of the rare child who had her ears pinned back or nose reshaped. With or without those extreme measures, our ordinary method of enhancement involves the diligent application of cosmetics. It is astonishing how proficient we women become at creating, for example, the illusion of cheekbones Mother Nature denied us, and I was an enthusiastic participant.
I wanted to be pretty, and I wasnt. Or, at least, I wasnt by the standards of Hollywood which establishes our criteria for beauty. I was particularly disturbed by my freckles which were considered merely cute  never beautiful  and I didnt think my eyes were shaped the way they should be. When I was about ten and was experimenting one day with makeup with some school friends, an older girl, who was probably about 12 named Olive; I never forgot that or what she said, told me my lips were too small.
And so I became expert at applying cosmetics to push my appearance as close to the prevailing definition of beautiful as possible  and that is a time-consuming task each morning. But so brainwashed was I that beginning in high school and ever after, I would not leave the house  not even for a quick trip to the deli  unless I was in full war paint.
I have envied women who can walk out into the world barefaced and fully confident. Who can skip the 20-minute preparation routine. Who can just be  and be happy about it. In my extreme youth, I admired Loretta Young for that kind of look. Later, it was Katharine Hepburn. And for the past decade or so, it has been Julia Roberts. 
Peel away the movie makeup and she is still gorgeous. She has never looked at a beautiful woman across a room and thought, I should just put a bag over my head. If Ms. Roberts is inclined to go to the corner for the newspaper, she has never said to herself, Oh, damn. Gotta put on my makeup first.
Many times I have asked myself what it could be like to be Julia Roberts, to be free always of the constant concern, every day, for my appearance.
There comes a time in getting older when a woman gradually spends less time hanging out at the cosmetic counters hoping to find the one new product that will turn her into Julia Roberts. After a while, the cosmetics shelf in the bathroom isnt quite as crowded as it once was. And it soon follows that applying makeup every morning comes to feel tedious. Then one day, as I did a couple of years ago, you meet a friend for coffee  without any makeup at all.
And nothing happened. No one pointed fingers. The waiter didnt refuse to take my order. I was not shunned in the street. And since then, I have reserved makeup - pared down to the minimum needed to smooth out blotchiness and add a small amount of color - for business and dress-up social occasions. 
It has taken 50 years but at last I can leave the house without thinking about my appearance. Woohoo - I have achieved my goal: I am Julia Roberts.
", "I Am Julia Roberts", '2004-09-07'),
(96, "phylliss58@gmail.com", "phyllis s", "
 This poem is floating around the Web here and there. According to some, it was found among the meager possessions of an old woman who died in the geriatric ward of a Dundee, Scotland hospital, and was later published in the News Magazine of the North Ireland Association for Mental Health.
That all may be apocryphal. I cant find any reference, except in relation to the poem, of the publication or its organization. Those who retrieved the poem did not record the womans name nor is there a year attached, but that is not important. This is a cry from the heart, whoever wrote it, to not be made invisible in old age.
It would do us all well to remember this poem when we are frustrated by someone old moving too slowly in front of us and when we find ourselves with an older relative or friend whose mind is perhaps not as quick as it once was. 
What do you see, nurses, what do you see, 
what are you thinking when youre looking at me? 
A crabby old woman, not very wise, 
uncertain of habit, with faraway eyes. 
Who dribbles her food and makes no reply 
when you say in a loud voice, I do wish youd try! 
Who seems not to notice the things that you do, 
and forever is losing a stocking or shoe. 
Who, resisting or not, lets you do as you will 
with bathing and feeding, the long day to fill. 
Is that what youre thinking? Is that what you see? 
Then open your eyes, nurse; youre not looking at me. 
Ill tell you who I am as I sit here so still, 
as I do at your bidding, as I eat at your will. 
Im a small child of ten with a father and mother, 
brothers and sisters, who love one another. 
A young girl of sixteen, with wings on her feet, 
dreaming that soon now a lover shell meet. 
A bride soon at twenty - my heart gives a leap, 
remembering the vows that I promised to keep.
At twenty-five now, I have young of my own 
who need me to guide and a secure happy home. 
A woman of thirty, my young now grown fast, 
bound to each other with ties that should last. 
At forty my young sons have grown and are gone, 
but my mans beside me to see I dont mourn. 
At fifty once more babies play round my knee, 
again we know children, my loved one and me. 
Dark days are upon me, my husband is dead; 
I look at the future, I shudder with dread. 
For my young are all rearing young of their own, 
and I think of the years and the love that Ive known. 
Im now an old woman and nature is cruel; 
tis jest to make old age look like a fool. 
The body, it crumbles, grace and vigor depart, 
there is now a stone where I once had a heart. 
But inside this old carcass a young girl still dwells, 
and now and again my battered heart swells. 
I remember the joys, I remember the pain, 
and Im loving and living life over again. 
I think of the years - all too few, gone too fast 
and accept the stark fact that nothing can last. 
So open your eyes, nurses, open and see, 
not a crabby old woman; look closer - see ME!
", "Crabby Old Lady - A Poem", '2004-09-08'),
(97, "wallaceblue33@gmail.com", "wallace blue", "
 To combat ageism at large and age discrimination in the workplace, some myths about older people must be dispelled. 74-year-old Erdman Palmore, professor emeritus at Duke University, has spent a lifetime studying aging and fighting ageism, and he is still at it.
What makes me mad is how aging, in our language and culture, is equated with deterioration and impairment, he said. I dont know how were going to root that out, except by making people more aware of it.



The Detroit News, 5 September 2004
In 1976, Professor Palmore developed a quiz to help people realize some of their prejudices about older people. Twenty-eight years later we still need this quiz. So embedded in our culture are the beliefs it tests, even older folks get some wrong.
In preparation for an ongoing discussion of age discrimination here, lets all take Professor Palmores quiz. Keep in mind that people age at widely varying rates, and the quiz applies to older people in general. The statements are taken from Palmores book, The Facts on Aging Quiz.
Here goes. Answer True or False for each statement.

The majority of old people  age 65-plus  are senile.
The five senses sight, hearing, taste, touch, smell all tend to weaken in old age.
The majority of old people have no interest in, nor capacity for, sexual relations.
Lung vital capacity tends to decline with old age.
The Majority of old people feel miserable most of the time.
Physical strength tends to decline with age.
At least one-tenth of the aged are living in long-stay institutions such as nursing homes, mental hospital and homes for the aged.
Aged drivers have fewer accidents per driver than those under age 65.
Older workers usually cannot work as effectively as younger workers.
More than three-fourths of the aged are healthy enough to do their normal activities without help.
The majority of old people are unable to adapt to change.
Older people usually take longer to learn something new.
Depression is more frequent among the elderly than among younger people.
Older people tend to react slower than younger people.
In general, old people tend to be pretty much alike.
The majority of old people say they are seldom bored.
The majority of older people are socially isolated.
Older workers have fewer accidents than younger workers.
More than 20 percent of the population is now 65 and older.
The majority of medical practitioners tend to give low priority to the aged.
The majority of old people have incomes below the poverty line, as defined by the U.S. federal government.
The majority of old people are working or would like to have some kind of work to do, including housework and volunteer work.
Old people tend to become more religious as they age.
The majority of old people say they are seldom irritated or angry.
The health and economic status of old people will be about the same or worse in the year 2010, compared with younger people.
", "Professor Palmores Amazing Facts on Aging Quiz", '2004-09-09'),
(98, "kayebarlow97@gmail.com", "kaye barlow", "
 If you havent taken Professor Palmores Facts on Aging Quiz posted here on Thursday, it would be a good idea to do that. Anyone concerned with age discrimination in the workplace  and that should mean everyone - needs to be grounded in those facts. Age discrimination is every bit as immoral as discrimination aimed at race, gender, religion and sexual orientation, but there are business reasons too for hiring older workers.
Here are some qualities older workers bring to the workplace, advantages recognized by the few who advocate for and are engaged in employing older people:

Reliability
Older workers show up on time and take fewer sick days than younger workers
Experience
Older workers have years and years of practice at what they do
Stability
There is less job turnover among older workers than younger workers
Productivity
Older workers productivity is equal to or better than younger workers
Advancement
Older workers are less concerned with moving up in the organization
", "The Value of a Mixed Age Workplace", '2004-09-10'),
(99, "georgesimons75@gmail.com", "george simons", "
 After slaving over a cold job market to prepare for what feels like this weeks coming exercise in futility, Crabby Old Lady rewarded herself Sunday evening with plans to watch a movie, Return to Paradise, which she had meant to see in a theater in 1998, but missed.
This is not a film review. It would be impossible to fairly critique this or any movie from watching it on commercial television. Such is the state of the consumer society on the tube that only victims of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder could claim enjoyment. In fact, Crabby has speculated in the past that there is a high degree of possibility that television watching, particularly beginning at an early age, plays a large part in the increased incidence of AD/HD, a suspicion further confirmed last night. 
Crabby had settled down in her favorite raggedy, flannel nightie  the better to fall asleep directly following the film  with a bowl of lusciously ripe, red raspberries she had been saving for the event. The movie began, and she felt her gradual envelopment in the story, that lovely experience of leaving daily cares behind and losing oneself completely in another world for two hours. So deep was her immersion over 20 minutes or so that she was shocked silly when the first commercial break appeared, ripping her out of Malaysia and into a raucous, hip-hop advertisement for iPod.
She was equally disoriented for a few moments when, ten commercials and three minutes later, she was abruptly returned to the less frantic rhythm of what she believes may be a well-made movie, though it was a struggle, throughout the next hour and 40 minutes, to maintain her concentration as the commercials disrupted the flow of the story with increasing frequency, allowing shorter periods of drama between advertisements.
To compound the distraction, these days, commercials continue even during the show. It began about 10 or 15 years ago with that little bug in the upper or lower right corner to tell viewers what channel they are watching. It has progressed now to a steady stream of animated, mini-promos for upcoming programs that cover a full one-quarter of the screen. 
And dont even get Crabby started on the crawl at the bottom of CNNs and other news channels screens. The human brain can read or it can listen. It cannot do both. Crabby has even heard of folks who cover the bottom of their screens with tape to reduce the clutter and Crabby predicts that the next development in these assaults on viewers overloaded senses will be audio. It is already happening. In one repeated promo  at several dramatic moments in the movie - a swoosh sound was used just in case Crabby missed the flashy animation as the promo swooped into view.
For the more than twenty years Crabby was employed in the television industry, her salary was paid by commercials and she understands the economic trade-off viewers make between commercials and programs, but surely it has gone too far now. It is not a new observation to note that programming has become a minor interruption from commercials. 
Couldnt television executives have the wit to perhaps make a distinction between sitcoms and reality shows whose rhythms match those of commercials, and theatrical movies which are carefully crafted to be viewed in one, longer exposure? Crabby already pays the outrageous sum of $75 per month for cable access to television. The increasing assault on her poor old brain is becoming unconscionable. Where will it end?
Although Crabbys reward to herself for the days diligent work on her employment future turned out to be a disappointment, she did winkle out enough of the continuity to recommend Return to Paradise, but not without resolving to cancel her cable subscription.
Do any of you know if there is a service or product by which Crabby Old Lady could listen to the audio only of news television and give up the rest of it altogether?

", "Crabby's TV Blues", '2004-09-13'),
(100, "megancampbell59@gmail.com", "megan campbell", "
EDITORS NOTE: In a remarkable coincidence, Donald Murray, in the Boston Globe today, is also writing about the changing seasons of life. Dont miss it.
 The idea for this blog, what its really like to get older, came about several years ago. Time and tide being what they are, its birth was postponed until sometime in March 2004. The number of entries picked up in April and May, and by June, it had become a functional, five-day-a-week publishing venture fully committed to by me and my cohort, Crabby Old Lady.
We two old women brought to this project a lot of ideas and enthusiasm with a soupcon of controlled rage and years of research into aging and ageism. The stacks of books around our house and piles of paper overfloweth.
What was not clear, in the beginning, was our own freedom from belief in the stereotypical myths about age perpetrated by the youth-and-beauty police, those oppressive imperatives so deeply embedded in the culture that even Crabby and I might be unaware of their insinuation into our subconscious and behavior.
In writing about getting older five days a week for the past few months, Crabby and I have made a conscious effort from day one to use the words old and older no matter how much we might desire a few more synonyms, rather than such cutesy euphemisms as golden ager, third ager or oldster and certainly not the downright offensive such as geezer, coot and biddy.
And now a remarkable thing has happened: we have lost the internal association with disparagement the words old and older invoke in the culture at large. By the relentless use of these words, we have removed from our consciousness their power to devalue, and we have discovered for ourselves what all marketers and advertisers know: repetition works.
Language is powerfully symbolic and the repeated use of verbal memes over decades hardens perception  for good or ill. When I have had reason, on occasion, to answer a question with Because Im old, the knee-jerk reaction from the other person  of any age  is Oh, youre not old. It never fails; it never varies. Sometimes, nowadays, I use that answer when I dont really need it just to test how deeply planted the cultures fear of aging is. It is so great that everyone feels the need to reassure me, as though their own eyes deceive them.
Crabby and I dislike it when people tell us we are not old. We are well into our seventh decade and weve never been this old before. We find it fascinating, perhaps because old people, in a society that makes a fetish of denying age, are mysterious. We are determined to lift the veil.
Many people in my age group tell me, I dont feel old. But that, Crabby and I believe, is a habitual reaction to a lifelong bombardment of the use of the word old as a pejorative. Of course, they feel old, particularly physically. There are aches and pains they didnt have ten years ago. They cant run for the bus as fast as they once did. They tire more easily.
What they really mean when they say they dont feel old is that they still become excited about something new in ways that feel similar to childhood. They still fall in love  and out of it, sometimes  as they did in their youth. They feel the pull of their passions as fully and strongly as they always have.
But until they admit to themselves that they are old, until they free themselves from the cultural stigma of the language, they cant rejoice in what getting older is really like. It is a time when a splendid, new sensibility creeps in, after about age 50, and continues to grow as the years pass by: Crabby and I have never felt more vibrantly alive, more assured of our self-worth, of our ability to contribute. Ideas are more exciting than they have ever been. We have a newly-found sense that this time of our life really is better than its ever been.
And isnt that how life should progress  if our culture didnt fall victim to viewing age as only a period of debility and senility? 
Being old is an exhilarating, new experience. But the language of aging, if we do not improve it, will deprive every one of us, as we get older, of our ability to recognize and savor it. 
Part of the solution is to strip our language of the negative association we attach to words that describe aging and older people. We can each be responsible for that in our lives and the lives of those around us. As the marketers know, if you say it often enough, it becomes true.
It is working for Crabby and me and its fun to watch now, as I throw around the word old as easily and un-self consciously as the word young, the surprised look on the faces of people who havent made the remarkable transformation yet. 
Crabby Old Lady and I would like to leave you today with a statement [PDF] Dr. Robert M. Butler made to Congress two years ago this month. Dr. Butler is a professor of geriatrics at Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, the man who in 1968, coined the term ageism. After an impassioned plea to the senators at the hearing on changing the image of aging in America, he ended his statement thusly:

our nation must alter our deep-seated fear, our shunned responsibility, and harmful avoidance and denial of age. Our conscience should be burdened by our obligations to those who have gone before us.

Strict legislation and enforcement against age discrimination and elder abuse are essential but insufficient. We must change how we think, feel and behave about late life. We must help people deal with their fears of aging, dependency and death. We must have a sense of the life course as a whole. 
Our family life, our educational system and our media must help transform our sensibility, and moral values held by each of us must drive this transformation of the culture and experience of aging in America, and beyond.
We are in the midst of a wonderful new world of longevity. It is in our power to make it a celebration.
", "A Remarkable Transformation", '2004-09-14');
